welcome back everyone to episode 5 of
hot line League if you're joining us for
the first time this is a call-in show
that we do on a semi weekly basis I'd
like to introduce you to some of my
co-hosts for this event this particular
episode first off we got mark Zimmerman
who's a mainstay for the show how's it
going mark I'm doing great when did we
become like some PBS late nights chill
like you know we can't you sound like
you're gonna go to sleep in a second
listen mark its viewers like you that
make this show possible and that's why
I'd like to suggest that you sub to the
twitch chat no actually but our guest
for this episode is Kelby Mae who's
returning to us after an episode break
you could tell how how great is and how
easy we could get access to guests when
Kelly is returning after one episode off
how's it going Kelly guess what else in
the Kalinin he couldn't make it this
week so Kel B's back again I'm doing
great thanks for having me back yeah
thanks
glad you could be on the show and okay
I'm not gonna keep doing that mark do
you want to explain the premise for the
show and what absolutely so if you guys
have not ever joined us for this before
here's how this works you guys are gonna
want to go to this discord that I'm
spamming in the chat right now you want
to join that and when you get there
you're gonna see that there is some
voice channels there's general in
general - you're gonna want to join
those and then in the general text
channel you're gonna type out your
questions your takes your opinions and
and we want strong takes you know you
think hundred thieves is gonna suck you
hate nadeshot you love the move with
bringing afro in whatever you want to
talk about you thought the our sport
video was dumb because eSports aren't
real sports you bring any opinion on the
show so I'd love to talk to that person
yeah
also all-star did you mention all-star
oh yeah this all starts going on so that
they're scouting grounds just last week
so there's a lot of stuff you guys can
call in and talk about and we will field
all of it yeah so as everyone is getting
ready and coming up with ideas I think
we're in the
we usually spend that first 10 or 15
minutes sometimes a little bit longer
but I think this week it'll be short
just chatting about some of the things
that have been happening recently as a
way to get everybody's kind of thoughts
going maybe you hear an opinion on the
show that you think is dumb whatever and
again I'd like to just get to cow B
really quickly for those that missed the
show that he was on Kobe you want to
talk a little bit about who you are what
you do yeah for sure uh I used to run
CLG for a couple years that's where most
people know me from and then after that
I went to evil geniuses and ran
sponsorship accounts and talent for a
while we got acquired by twitch did that
while EG was at twitch for a while and
then EG divested our sorry twitch
divested EG and alliance and now I do
sponsorship sales for some twitch
partner teams so Evil Geniuses Alliance
TSM cloud9
and Team Liquid there you go so he works
at twitch and he has all sorts of
insider knowledge on eg Alliance team
liquid and TSM and if you guys want to
know anything specific about any of that
he can easier easier guy he'll tell you
so let's talk a little bit about some of
the stuff that's been happening so maybe
we should start off with what should we
start off with you want to start off
with any of the any additional roster
announcements or anything that got
confirmed I did several interviews with
teams anybody you guys finding stuff
interesting I'd love to hear Marc's
opinion on the team owners that Travis
did interviews with and who or you know
just like the various people from these
orcs and who impressed him especially
from the new people coming in a little
you've heard so far so I haven't watched
every one of his interviews but nadeshot
is very charismatic and I like having
him in the scene because he is so
charismatic but a lot of what he says
it's like you know I don't know what I'm
doing
and I'll have people who do I think
probably is good for that so you know
hundred thieves is making me kind of a
fan just because in terms of the people
Travis is a nerd he's interviewed he's
one of the least kind of like stuffy PR
guy and most kind of once again
quote-unquote authentic to eSports
I like seeing daryl morey just because
or however you say
named Darryl Moreau yeah yeah I was just
like what the hell he was at scouting
grouse I had no idea that he actually is
like there and caring so that was really
cool to me I did this wasn't Travis's
interview but the Kirk shit the Golden
State Warriors guy okay you're breaking
up mark can't hear what you're saying
anyways I saw an interview with him and
I was not impressed with that one yeah
well there was an interview not with me
so I think that's part of the problem
that's why you were impressed right yeah
most likely there's a couple others but
most of the new teams like optic mm-hmm
they're okay I don't know I'm not super
impressed by anybody because I just have
such high standards yeah really I I was
impressed by some of the by the way
thanks Bo hey for the Bowie Bowie for
this for the host of 113 viewers if
you're watching this is not a
french-canadian stream but hopefully
you'll understand the English anyway the
point is I actually think so it's kind
of echo marks statements my lineup now
of because I've interviewed all for the
new teams right but yeah yeah so I think
a lot of people don't aren't as hype
about going Guardians because they
haven't announced that roster yet but
Kelby and I are both very good personal
friends with hunter so I'm really
nervous to see what he does with that
recommend people check out that
interview
nadeshot is fascinating to me because
okay I gave 100 thieves a lot of shit I
think the last time Kelby was on the
show I believe more in them now but they
don't know why which makes me think that
it's just made shots charisma see that
is exactly what I was saying like I
watched that interview and then the
hundred thieves afro announcement I'm
just like god I love this team and I'm
like why yeah
what did you think about the
announcement being him and prolly just
like essentially doing a vlog everything
today you're saying and yeah yeah an
afro he's not in he's not in it at all
they don't have an image of him in the
thumbnail on the tweet or in the video
that appears it's just talk it's not
like I don't know I mean their content
strategy right now is very clearly
nadeshot as a youtuber right he's our
ten house getting a shot in front with
some jump cuts and there you go
what's up everybody we're really excited
to talk about Africa coming 100 thieves
yeah I don't know I I hope that they
come up with something a little bit more
because I it's gonna be hard whatever
it's like what's up everybody it's
nadeshot here halfway through the season
we haven't been doing too well
we're announcing a roster so you know
like no to be fair I agree about like
you probably want something a little bit
more professional-looking but I do like
that it's different at least like I like
went comatose watching like the fifth
team liquid like thank you and like TSM
thank you and you thank you and thank
you I'm so thankful for the think for
the players that thanked me and like
just fuckin Christ
I mean medication videos yeah yeah I
know I noticed on the the cloud9 YouTube
earlier today they actually have a
dedication playlist really yeah I was
like that and I had that exact same
thought I was like wow we've gotten to
this point right yeah where we we have
dedications III by the way I guess I
should say I
I also hung out with probably before I
talked or I interviewed nadeshot
actually was later before he and I got
lunch and so that's part of the reason I
think I'm a little bit more I believe in
a little bit more than hundred thieves
because it sounds like they've they're
doing some really cool stuff behind the
scenes that I don't even know if we got
to all that and the interviews I did but
so we talked about golden Guardians
hundred thieves optic is really
interesting to me because it sounds like
it's really Romain who's gonna be what
that team you know it lives or dies
based on his involvement I'm sure they
have other people involved but he's
really another charismatic enthusiastic
guy just with an accent but I I think he
did a lot of really good stuff with
unicorns of love it'll be interesting to
see what he can accomplish with a lot
more funding can I say that of all the
pieces I've seen so far from these new
people that remain personally impressed
me the most yeah I really really like I
hadn't really gotten to hear him speak a
whole bunch and like from the unicorns
of love thing as an NA LCS primarily fan
I only know him as like you know the cut
dude who was running
doing crazy antics with his shirt off
yeah yeah but I really appreciated in
his interview with you Travis how he
explained a lot of his thinking and
approach to not just like team stuff but
the greater org and how they're running
in as a whole and a lot of his thing and
like not only that but how he got to
those reasonings and like those reasons
that they would play out in in certain
areas which I always really really
appreciate and I think a lot of his
logic followed really well I think that
maybe he had one or two assumptions that
I would combat but I think that on the
whole I really really appreciate how
he's thinking about the space he's only
the most transparent interview I would
yeah which was yeah so and then Who am I
forgetting
oh clutch yes so interviewed Sebastian I
don't know Sebastian for a while but I
think people can disagree with his
assessments but I think you know he
seems to have he's very very methodical
and the way they're going about clutch
seems to be very very methodical they
definitely have from what what it sounds
like like the most support staff at
least on like the analytical figuring
out you know what the strengths of all
these players are and their kind of
thing so it'll be interesting to see if
all this kind of extra thought process
in watching vods and all this kind of
stuff can translate into them like
outmaneuvering or doing things on in the
game that like nobody else mark you seem
very skeptical it's I read there like
first post where they were like you know
we we took these steps and we did some
cool stuff to try and calculate time
between this stuff and I read the whole
thing and it sounded like by the end of
it there was like and we still have
nothing really you mean their analytical
thing about like how long it takes to
get places on the map or whatever yeah
they're like yeah then we did some a
star passing I was like yo anyone who
took like computer science one knows
what a star pathing is like that's
that's a I don't know what like and then
they said like we did a bunch of other
complex shit didn't get into that part
at all which is like the part that would
probably interest people and I don't
know it was just like you're gonna have
to convince me that like your analytics
are really something cool because
I've been up a lot of a part of a lot of
analytical projects that try and come up
with advanced metrics for league of
legends and it's it's really tough yeah
thanks impossible but I want to see it
and then I I don't I don't think very
many people have watched the Daryl Morey
interview I would I would watch that
this guy for context guys he's like one
of the major figures in the NBA in terms
of the management side he has been very
successful with a very kind of
methodical process that he has taken
with the Rockets over time he is one of
the reasons why the Sloan Sports
analytics conference exists which I got
a lot of people don't know that is but
it's literally this big conference where
all the data nerds get together and talk
about all like the crazy math side of
sports by the MIT helps host in Boston I
was there earlier this year just check
it out it's kind of cool to see him at
scouting grounds like he was literally
in the audience with this phone out and
whenever hate like Klutch had two draft
picks and he would like hold up his
phone and record like the draft thing
cuz he in his mind this is such a
historic time and I think he kind of
compared in the interview to going back
to like the first drafts that took place
in the NBA and all that stuff and so he
done this stuff yeah it's it's neat it's
the first time I've seen like besides
maybe Rick Fox but Rick Fox kind of come
from a different angle someone so
invested and passionate here on the
sports side so it's kind of and having
watched the interview I will say he's
not nadeshot like he's not the
charismatic guy it can be a little bit
drive an interview but like you need to
understand who the guy is in terms of
who he is outside League of Legends and
why it's so cool that he's kind of just
like hanging around not like I'm here
for the press conference no he does
start the interview by calling out the
other senior execs he's like you don't
see anybody from lawyers here you don't
see it's kind of funny yeah but enough
promoting my interviews I've got two
quick things for you guys before we go
into calls and then people can come see
me drinking by the way yes I have this
wonderful Nestle Pure Life thing they
probably stole this water from a local
Reservation or something I don't know
but I'm drinking it okay next up we got
all-stars I think I'm excited to go to
all-stars I think it'll be fun and
interesting I think right
no fuckin clue what they're doing with
all stars how can you say that this is a
serious event when there's no prize pool
and none of these guys are probably
prepping for it and like the meta is
just a shit show etc I I do not know I
do not think right knows how what to do
with all stars I I'm excited that it's
kind of returned to the first year but
the first even the first year had a lot
of fun with it with like the magma
chamber stuff and all I kind of think so
I'm just happy that it's not two weeks
in another country like it was before
where I was just like why am I even here
like this is a shit show for quick days
should be fun we'll see I don't know I
think it's the kind of thing where it's
a really hard tournament to make like
successful for the viewers were like if
you make it too serious but it's at this
timing people will just be like why is
this have such weight when it's you know
clearly a stupid tournament and then if
you make it like to troll people are
like why would I ever watch this yeah I
I have thought a decent amount about how
to make all-stars great and I haven't
come up with a great solution yeah I
think having a price pool that a
significant would help everyone try a
little harder for this that's my take
like we you know Peter er isn't at all
stars and while he and I have not spoken
about it it's pretty obvious that Peter
can make significant money by streaming
and he has gone to all stars in the past
and always just lost money by doing that
you know like it's not it doesn't feel
good when you were investing time into
this thing and it's not necessarily
gonna pay out for you I don't know I
think that's part of the problem is
there's this nothing on the line and
it's kind of embarrassing I think that
there's nothing on the line yeah yeah
so also shout out to cop and the twitch
chat hanging out just spamming frankerz
ease I don't know what's going on Joe
Castillo said it was the best at some
point earlier yeah finally let's talk
about scouting grounds I thought
scouting grounds was cool I enjoyed the
fact that they they did it felt more
like a show this year than kind of this
behind-the-scenes thing like they had
the whole draft at the end of it I
thought that was kind of neat and it was
interesting to sort of see cloud 9 get
a draft picks that they had I don't know
a gain from other teams I don't know if
it was purchased or not they bought them
yeah they bought them and I thought that
was interesting to sort of see how that
stuff is starting to happen so you
already have some teams that are seeing
the value there at least enough to pay
who knows how much they're paying if
those $20 or $20,000 there was a bit of
a scandal oh yeah I don't know did you
not see this mark I think I know you're
talking about viewers the context there
was a tweet where okay so for context
before scouting grounds happened there
were players that were supposed to go to
scouting grounds that started to get
picked up by teams what are you doing
with your hands mark I don't know it's
just sizing like that's like every
player's that needed to get picked up my
team's and what started to happen is
scouting ground started to crumble
because the players that were supposed
to go to start go scouting grounds
started to get signed to teams or
whatever this is I I was not following
most of this so please take everything
I'm saying with the green curtain and so
riot implemented a rule where if you
like if you're going to scouting grounds
you're you can't get there's there's
like poaching for protection essentially
teams cannot approach any of these guys
about signing them or whatever what I
heard was that and there was another
tweet about this from somebody I forget
another tweeted yeah was that there were
players who had sort of handshake
agreements so nothing contractual or
whatever that they would get signed by a
team at because basically when you get
drafted you have I think 21 days 22 days
to one day one day exclusivity a window
so you know let's say Kelby is drafting
mark at the end of scouting grounds mark
can't go sign with anybody else for 21
days and Kelby has 21 days to make a
deal that mark will feel happy about
signing or whatever the problem was that
supposedly there were deals in place
where if you if you are a if you know
certain
players or whatever we're gonna go to
certain teams and wait out the 21 days
and then sign with them so I don't know
the full extent of that no proof has
been a maid available to me but to in my
opinion the fact that this kind of stuff
is a little rumored demonstrates just
kind of a flaw in the scouting around
system and and one that was already
started to kits you know notice when you
had players that were supposed to go to
scouting grounds and start to get signed
ahead of time yeah so obviously I was on
the broadcast side and like we're not
gonna talk about and I knew that because
you know we're just trying to make the
event fun and everything and I think
there was definitely clearly some of
that that was in play and it was just I
think an oversight on the scouting
grounds like structure that they didn't
say when you apply to scouting grounds
you're you forfeit your right to
negotiate with teams until the event is
over yeah I think that's all they needed
to say and they just didn't have that in
place because I didn't think all the
talent would get signed up like that and
then once it started happening they kind
of tried to do it retroactively Lee but
by that point half those guys had
already had conversations so it's like
oh yeah we can't talk anymore
TSM Academy but you know once this is
done I think I think that's that's a lot
of what happened whereas like people
were in the middle of conversations when
when they were told they couldn't
anymore
yeah can I offer a potential
hypothetical or suggestion sure but it
but it may turn into a larger
conversation so I don't want it to
snowball too much but I've always
thought that the potential for a draft
in League of Legends like you have in
other traditional sports especially in
the u.s. would be really really
potentially interesting before you guy
when you started telling the scandal
story I was thinking about how this
might be an issue and then you mentioned
that it was the issue so it's not
surprising to me what would be
potentially really interesting and I'm
literally coming up with this off the
top of my head so there may be holes and
I'd like to you know talk more about it
is what if we had a system in place
where and it's kind of tricky for your
one but after you after that hopefully
it's better teams within na LCS are not
allowed to pick up North American
talent as free agents throughout the
year they are only allowed to pick from
their Academy team or transfer with
other teams you know their Academy teams
are their starting rosters and then each
year all of the upcoming talent comes or
is entered in through scouting grounds
maybe not through that event because the
event probably has to be changed but
some sort of draft and then it places
real real emphasis on value for
acquiring North American talent through
this draft and then you know like the
event just becomes really important and
then you draft your players they're
entered into your you know farm teams
teams actually like have a lot of
weighting or importance and emphasis on
where they're at in the draft and how
they're developing their farm teams
because that talent is now your pool
that you're able to actually draw from
throughout the urine more really what
you're limited to unless you want to
make a transfer with another team and it
really provides a clear path for the
aspirational player now that doesn't you
know that I feel like kind of
potentially got hamper and we talked
about this in the past Travis as a group
you know with Nick and Hunter and stuff
about what happens to the aspirational
path for a North American challenger
player once challenger league goes away
and you have franchising I think that
that could potentially add this path and
not only that I worry that the top four
teams TL TSM cloud9 CLG even with these
other franchise teams coming in they
have such a big advantage in acquiring
talent a draft system in which your
placement through the regular season
gives you a higher position in the draft
is a way for you know teams that are
struggling especially since their
franchise teams now to have a way to get
top upcoming talent and give them real
value to either retain that or get
significant compensation for trading it
away so really quickly the idea is you
can't you can trade with other teams but
you can't import where you can no so it
only applies to North American talent
okay not GOP in town or Korean town or
whatever so there's two things one I
think they would you know obviously want
to tie in
raph position with end-of-season
position but it was just really awkward
this time with you know four new orgs
coming or you know they were just like
you know what it's it's gonna be too
arbitrary if we try and come up with
something else
so let's just say all random for the
first one also because it's kind of like
it's the first time it's happening yeah
yeah the thing I don't like about your
idea is not being able to sign North
American talent throughout the year yes
I think that actually hampers like the
scenes growth a player like Mike Young
would have been sitting on the sidelines
the entire year and then you don't know
how good he actually is you haven't seen
him in the LCS yet he hasn't worked with
any coaching staff for a serious amount
of time so you you he has less
opportunities presented to him also in
your system
sorry work I was gonna say yeah it's
just it just hurts the player and it
hurts the teams because Phoenix one
needs a new jungler they're clearly
failing but they're hamstrung because
they can't take new players from North
America and and that player doesn't get
a chance to grow earlier so I think that
part I don't like but I am fine with the
idea of a lockout period you know where
no one can make roster transactions
which already exists but you just kind
of lump even signing players that aren't
under contract yet you just can't sign
anyone for so many you know weeks until
Scott and grounds is finished also in
Calvi system doesn't that mean that a
team like the rumored golden Guardians
roster is incentivized to pick foreign
talent rather than domestic talent we
only have so many import slots right
well they have the rumor is that they're
using none of theirs right so midseason
if they want to get a player they are
only able to pick from Europe all right
or their Academy well their Academy team
or you make a transfer with another team
for this first year like I said it's
it's really rough it's probably
something that you start after a year
the only thing mark I get what you're
saying on your point the only thing I
worry about is like if you don't make
that lockout period long enough then
teams just like acquire all the good
talent throughout the year and you have
nothing good left for scouting ground so
you know what I mean yeah it would be
really cool to have like a player who's
super hyped like Mike Young be like man
people who have been waiting to get a
shot at
kid for like six months or something
like that
where does he go in the draft but yeah I
think that cuz you're right with
traditional sports they have like you
know college football or college
basketball where the guys still have
some sort of development addition yeah
where they have development and we don't
have that yet but I would like to see
like real talent come up through this
draft system potentially would be
interesting to me what happened this
draft that I thought was really cool and
it's because of you don't know what was
happening with the conversations before
you don't know how much of this was
actually influenced by the scouting
grounds or not but in the future I would
love to say 100 percent scouting grounds
was there was this like 16 year old kid
top laner called League Shiro
he was Cloud nines first pick in the
scouting grounds draft he's a top laner
cloud9 starting top laner is licorice
another young North American talent yes
they go to scouting grounds their first
pick is spent on this guy they spend the
whole week working with him they clearly
decided they liked him and then they
move up in the draft to take him with
the first overall pick and that is like
such a like perfect story for what
scouting grounds is trying to achieve
here we're like it gives teams who are
at scouting around a chance to work with
players and decide like yes this is a
guy I want to pull the trigger on and
you know obviously with you know Cena I
might have been talking to this kid for
months and that makes it kind of feel a
little worse who knows but in the future
like those are the kind of storylines
you get I think that's fantastic
yeah I agree for sure all right well
we've we've talked about what rosters
you my team owners and we've talked
about as Kelly message me
oh I see now that was from before we've
talked about new team owners we talked
about all-stars and we've talked about
scouting grounds now it's time to hear
from you guys what you think yep so I
have some people in the waiting room
I'll go down and grab one of them in the
meantime I'll be paying attention to the
general you know text chat looking for
some hot takes yeah right drag people
down to the waiting room and then we'll
start well yes I'm gonna try playing an
end oh oh boy well
we're playing that no one can speak well
be we can talk amongst each other right
yeah but I don't want I know well I
guess I could mute can they hear us here
all I'll mute
you
all right we're back from that break and
there we go I did say in the ad to do I
think people ran adblock or something
people people use adblock I think yeah
people people are like I didn't see an
ad and then I think it's because they
just ran adblock and then they're
they're like huh it's very rude people
saw Skyrim ads that's great oh really oh
is it like Skyrim for a switch or
something like that yeah probably all
right I got one guy ready yeah
they say Mike is still needed but I
don't think it's meet it I think they're
just trying you wanna pull em in oh yeah
all right and we are joined right now by
Dee Hornibrook Dee Hornibrook where are
you calling from
I'm calling from Irvine okay oh very
close local very close and from oh sorry
I got the stream in the background so
I've got some loop there we go now I'm
clear okay and what do you got for us so
I have a great question this is kind of
spurred on by Kelsey's tweet earlier
today at the Philadelphia fusion so the
overwatch League has given us the 220
million dollar means that our Boston
uprising and the Philadelphia fusion so
my question to you guys is are there any
of the new teams right now that you're
worried that are going to end up more
meme than team at this point I mean well
so you can you provide the context for
the people I wasn't kelpy give it
Kelby can you provide the overwatch
League context from today oh god yes so
Travis can you pull up the Philadelphia
fusion Twitter on stream let's just
roast Philadelphia let me see let me see
if I can which by the way you also have
to pull up there this is how we do it in
Philly video that's been taken down
apparently that was a masterpiece does
know
I'm sure it's somewhere so this is this
is especially great because I work with
Comcast who owns the Philadelphia fusion
on the evil geniuses sponsorship but the
team I work with is on a different team
than like the group that does this thing
oh man it's I just we have great
conversations about it it's so much fun
okay so how are you what's coming up in
the second yeah so do you see their
tweet if you scroll down a little bit
that's them
yeah scroll scroll down it's it's them
encouraging people to tweet their best
meme at them you gotta scroll down a
little bit further sorry
oh I thought we deleted no I don't know
I keep going keep going okay so think
you can out meme our new meme specialist
follow us retweet this and reply with
your favorite meme and you might win a
pair of tickets are you up to the
challenge first off this isn't a meme
it's a fucking gift alright so like I
just hate how much how the term meme
gets especially overused and it also
just reads like so horribly like that
that really great actual meme which is a
the gift of the the guy and he is like
hey kids what's up you know you fellow
kids and it's just like it's so
millennial like marketing speak it just
it pains me so bad to see it so yeah I
have zero confidence in this org and
what they're doing so far and they've
first misstep either yeah I think from
even today because this was a team that
put out a horrible video that was
clearly done by some marketing agency
who doesn't understand eSports yeah
then they one of their players got in
trouble for something I'm pretty sure
then there's that mean thing I guess and
then today when the preseason is
supposed to be starting soon and I'm
pretty sure
overwatch League requires everyone to
participate in the preseason they can't
field their roster due to logistical
issues yeah $20,000,000 my in yeah get
ready for preseason which by the way the
tickets they were giving away in the
tweet
are now to an event
they will not be attending oh but to
answer your question no I have complete
confidence in every team that's been
franchised in the NA LCS I think they're
all great and there's there's no way
that any of them will do a bad job he'll
be your voice is a hundred percent dead
yeah all right I mean I am NOT I look I
do not worry that anyone is going to
fuck up as bad as this Phillies
Philadelphia fusion people because I do
think that riot first off limit there's
four new teams there compared to all the
teams that like every team is brand new
to overwatch League so even your chances
of it being far less and I'm also just
from interviewing the new teams I feel
like these guys like one of them is run
by our friend hunter who used to work at
riots another one has probably attached
to it and he's gonna stop an H off from
do anything crazy hopefully and even
then they'd shots been around on the
internet like he's not gonna
I think mess up and then what else optic
is got romaine who was already in the EU
LCS previously and it's optic also an
endemic esports org and then Who am I
forgetting club clutch clutch has got
Sebastian has been around forever so
these guys have all hired they're all
being run by people that have been in
eSports for quite some time and while
they might make the occasional snafu
like I think it's gonna be more like oh
this is an awkward video not like how do
you do fellow kids I think
welcome to the NA LCS yeah I think on
the one hand at least like LCS has been
around so you can ask people like how do
you do it if you even if you don't know
what you're doing you can at least be
like hey people who have done this
before where's like overwatch League is
100% new those guys don't even like have
something to work yeah and the thing
that interested me we're not we had our
call with Steve Aaron set he said that
like one of the teams or some of these
teams like couldn't even set up internet
for the NA LCS teams couldn't set up
internet in their gaming house because
it was something like they weren't
familiar with so I think there's some
potential for some of these newer teams
to be like a little bit shaky I don't
know how much he was joking when yeah I
continue to question that statement
because none of the teams had gaming
houses at the time I think Steve was
just blasting them but I yes I I don't
know I
don't think any of them are gonna be
that shaky yeah I don't think any of
them are gonna miss showing up for work
yeah
fly West does have to prove it to me
though they're my they're my favorite
yeah that's what I was like they they're
kind of cringy video we we know what the
fans know what they want so we're gonna
bring it to them just shots of
wildturtle over and over and over and
over are you I mean it's all about the
smile man yeah but that's the smile
that's gonna sell Jersey's mirror all
right how about this we each pick one
team that we think is gonna flop it like
just like no nobody's gonna flop it I
think like was like relative to any else
like we're never gonna be as bad as like
well I would say fly close to I'll say
maybe golden Guardians really I mean
like I mean I know I'm biased because
I'm friends with honor but that's ya
know I don't think it's gonna be like
necessarily complete management works
with us a yahoo I'm just saying I could
go out there and see the team lay an egg
and like fans turn on them and people
just like why don't you have any fuckin
imports like there's an extremely quick
kind of deal where people are just kind
of mocking them I know but I mean like
they at least seem liquid you could
always see that they were trying maybe
too hard and you're like hey do less
like work with your team but like I
could see a thing we're golden Guardians
come out they flop Kirk gets back out
there again he's like now guys we're
building team and na talent and and then
the fans just like what are you even
talking about your roster sucks you have
no imports yeah so I got there's
something to be said for doing an all na
team though I really like this story
separately if it works yeah we should
have somebody calling about that because
otherwise we'll talk about that for
another 15 minutes thank you so much PG
Hornibrook for callin end preciate it
say hi to Blizzard for us oh yeah no
I've got a meeting with them on Thursday
well oh my love Nate and ziering
overwatch League don't show them this
bod okay next up I'm sure they're keenly
aware I mean there's got to be internal
conversations you know Monty is attitude
in general about these things right I'm
sure that he's like throwing papers
across the room like get this fucking
guy on the phone what is going on here
yeah yeah thank you to ducking llama for
subscribing and the hippie Steve for the
sub appreciate it as we get mark to pull
the next person in here is okay quartz
see em is a how that's pronounced quartz
CMAs fights okay well you're
capitalizing the M at the end of your
name it's very confusing me where you
calling from Ontario Canada Ontario
Canada there's an Ontario near me but
that's not it also has a CA at the end
of it either way first Canadian of the
night what do you got for us yeah so I
wrote in the chat about my thoughts on
the hundred T roster I think their
roster plus their coaching staff should
be looking to contend for top three in
the first split in the NA LCS okay well
this is great because I think he'll be
it was you the other night that I said
that I think some of these other teams
could get in top three they're like no
one's gonna break top three except for
the top four that everybody's talking
about right yeah so so well you should
argue with this guy well so why don't we
hear why you think they're gonna hit top
three yeah so so it looks like now most
of the rosters are pretty much finalized
or you know rumored to be finalized you
know ironically 100t is one of those
rosters that isn't so if we look at the
the current composition of what everyone
is telling to be like you know the
current top three top four you've got
TSM which is changing out three players
and their coach you've got I think the
other ones you've got TL which is sort
of like the super team I guess and we
all know how good super teams have done
in the past and na u you know great
stories there and you've got and I guess
most people are putting in third you
know either c9 or CLG alright so seen on
in CLG already you see they have some
huge gaps that they're looking to sort
of like fix over the next year you know
and CLG you've got the jungle position
in c9 you've got I don't know what
they're doing with their top lane
something or other on the other hand 100
thieves you got to look at what they're
bringing in just just from what they've
confirmed so far you've got to look at
what they're bringing in okay so someday
always kills it okay you know that's
gonna be a strong consistent force in
the top
you've got Ryu and meteos which most
people are sort of saying are like the
wildcards in my opinion it's you got to
look at sort of their consistency over
their playing careers and you know
there's not many mid laners so you can
say has been more consistent than than
ryu at least from his most of his time
in EU and i think the the real capper
and the reason why i think they should
definitely be contending for top three
is their coaching staff which is headed
by prolly and from everything I've ever
heard from prolly or about probably
there's nothing but good things to say I
think where you say all this joke
everything I've ever heard from prolly
or about probably there's been nothing
but good things to say you're like
talking to prolly and he just says he's
the best coach ever no no no I have
never had any contact with probably a
system I'm an avid summoning inside fan
so I listened to probably talk a lot
okay all right so Kelby you wanna shoot
you're the hunter T hater right you want
to go first or should I go first
no it's fine do we know who their ADC is
supposed to be yet or no no let's let's
go throw a year of you today said that
they don't he doesn't know yet that
they're actually still talking to people
excedrin I believe them based on
conversations I had with them outside of
that - is there anybody good available
Cody sighs the obvious situation yeah so
why don't we just say Cody some for
discussion sure so I I will agree with
you on some day I think that some day is
like you know probably top three maybe
in the league as a top laner I actually
really believe in the potential of
meteos returning to form I think that
that guy could be a really good jungler
I do not believe in Ryu especially
compared to all the other talent that
exists in na now there are so many good
mid laners in a through Bjork's and
Jensen po power of evil uh whom I forget
like who knee like there's just who he
sorry who he there's just like there's
so many & froggin oh my god dude there's
a really yeah I didn't get picked up
Jesus all right I can't I even good
enough to get
I just I just feel like there's so much
people is another person that will out
class and on botlane I don't know deed
so I froze I froze gonna be paired with
somebody new it's just it's really hard
to put them in the top three for me yes
who do you sorry
who do you say Court seem is not in the
top three so the exchange top four is TL
TSM CLG and cloud nine so which two
teams of those will not be in the top
three
okay so there's there's a couple of
things you want to look at when you're
talking about this right so we've got to
remember that you know and a hundred
thieves you know is also one of these
rosters but a lot of these rosters are
going to be brand new you know and we've
seen in the past that in situations when
there's a lot of new rosters mixing
together you're gonna have unpredictable
results okay so in terms of the the
three rosters I mean so you're asking
which of those three do I for which
lease for TL TSMC LG cloud nine yeah few
of them he's finishing go two of them
are not gonna be in the top three if you
are saying that hundred thieves will be
right so and I'm assuming you mean
playoff results right not regular season
who do you think is gonna go further you
know better then okay so I think that
out of those four the I mean the clear
weaker ones we would say is cloud nine
and CLG just because of the the gaps
that they're filling and you know just
on paper it doesn't look like they're
filling those gaps very well but to be
honest in my opinion I think TL is the
big the big question mark here just I
don't like super teams man and well one
like that though the one downside of
what your subject you were suggesting is
you were saying that the most of these
teams have not played together you need
to remember that T all three of these
five have played together yeah so so
here's what all chiming I look at this
roster and I look at who like what are
they better at because they're botlane
right afro and Cody son that's just
worse
The Immortals botlane cuz I think always
better than afro he was a borderline MVP
candidate right and you're pairing them
up with Cody so I don't think that
better than immortal spot lane
I don't think Bri you and meteos will
form great together I think they were
acceptable and maybe Ryu gets back to
like his more European level of
performance but even then compared to
beer sin Jensen probably pobelter
and even who he to an extent all things
better than any of those now then
houki I'm just kidding I know I'm fun of
myself yeah I got you anyways I I just I
just don't see where they have these
clear advantages over the other top
teams that you're supposedly talking
about I think you know obviously top
lane compared to licorice from like yeah
I'm expecting him to get bodied hard but
at the same time if we you doesn't pick
his performance up because he was
basically quitting in the middle of this
the season last year he's gonna get
destroyed by Jensen and I don't think
they're bot lanes better either so and
and meteos is a big question mark
because the last time we saw him he was
playing like World of Warcraft just as
much as he was playing League and the
reason he was so chill was because he
didn't give a shit and so how is this
team gonna function together I believe
in prolly I think he's a good coach but
they have a lot of question marks yeah
like if you look at the other three like
teams that they have to move past like I
look at MIT like like Mark was talking
about if you're comparing like apples to
apples on them like if you do mid
botlane comparisons for 100 T vs c9 vs
TSM vs. TL like I take all those other
teams min bot Lane combos over 100 T
every time yeah okay so so here's the
here's I guess we're you know
fundamentally I'm disagreeing you know
I'm not like going to try to argue like
man-for-man that the the players on 100
T are you know better than their
counterparts on cloud 9 or TSM or
actually not cloud 9 sorry TSM we're TL
okay cuz those are like the clear like
easy to see from favorites okay what I'm
what I'm thinking about and you know
Marcus saying so where's the advantage
gonna come from you know and in my
opinion that advantage is going to come
from the coaching staff it's gonna come
from probably you know sort of having
that game plan who probably doesn't her
sancocho he has to out until we don't
even know who else so you have to really
believe that prolly can one man or you
know at least we'll be able to hire
other people that can help them out I
mean cuz when you say the coaching staff
you're putting all your eggs on the
probably basket at the moment okay sure
you know I I can you know freely admit
that I'm I don't know enough about that
kind of situation to say much about that
I mean I'm just saying that you know
from what I've seen of probably in the
past what he's does you know for better
or for worse to the htk rosters that
he's had you know full control of over
all of these years it's it's you know
whether or not you want to say it's been
a good thing or a bad thing he's always
put them on a consistent game plan he's
always had a very clear idea of how he
wants his players to play the game and
you know more often than not the his
idea of how to play the game does seem
to be an edge over his opponents that's
so that's for all throw to things well
we should probably wrap soon oh yeah
yeah this is gonna be wrapping it one I
can you know cops in chat saying that
you know he's free so probably I'd say
that yeah feel free to hit cop up he
says probably won't follow him back so
if you're watching probably call o cop
back so you can DM you yeah ii there is
a world where all these things work out
where like meteos and ryu step there
lope their game up and their pot line
does fine and they develop a very like
clgs kind of like play the map play
style because i do you think they have a
lot of players who are smart and good at
that like Afro ryu and me do so so i can
see a world where they do overperform
i would just if you asked me to make
that bet i would bet against it yeah
thanks so much court scene for calling
in and the great news is is that you'll
have this as a record of proof if we if
we all doubted you and yeah you link
this fought in every reddit thread
thanks a lot for having have a good one
yeah yeah thanks man
the only coaching staff i would not
believe in is any coaching staff that is
sending their team to korea for ten days
before christmas that's a touching set i
would not believe it wait is that public
no they're I don't know who's I'm just
saying in generalities okay what do you
mean is that public is somebody actually
doing that Kelby oh my god
all right Wow so we got Oswald back mark
you're gonna pull something into the
chat yep
justin is calling us justin where you
come from I'm calling from LA oh hey
right right here on hope and the Travis
quavered East Way Chanel a hometown
create sound to be more specific
yeah the Travis careful is not that far
away from there alright so just the ones
you got for us uh to be honest I didn't
really expect my take to be chosen but
basically what I said was I actually
find all start to be super exciting for
a year from my perspective and that this
one should be the most the most watch in
terms of like viewer wise is what I'm
thinking what is different about this
one that makes it so much more
compelling to you at least for me uh
last year was in I think Rio Brazil and
the production was super good and people
thought that when also was in the back
to LA that they found it as a downgrade
but for me I feel like it makes it much
more maybe I worried it wrong because
maybe it's not more like compelling but
at least for me going to a smaller
studio helps the audience become more
how do I say it more interesting and
watching yeah intimate because I'm not
I've been to na I've been to na LCS TV
before and are really close to players
and for many it's their first time being
able to see these international players
yeah so you think that because all-stars
has moved to a venue where the fans are
closer in proximity to the players as
they're playing their matches it will
get better viewership maybe not better
cuz maybe I did worry wrong at the
beginning I do believe that people who
are saying also should be should be gone
completely are out of their minds I know
Travis gaffer is not really excited for
all Travis is out of his mind
listen here Justin you said a lot of
stuff here Justin you're a fellow
Angelino I appreciate that you live in
Koreatown hopefully not the sketchy part
but I'm gonna say this sketchy part well
I got nothing for you
pshh you got mug there one time so be
careful hey Justin do you are you going
to all-star see thing I want to buy
tickets unfortunately is sold out three
days that man Justin wouldn't have been
great if it hadn't taken place at the NA
LCS studio and it would have been at
like a theater or some bigger venue in
the work area and you could have
actually bought a ticket at Washington
person what a beautiful scenario but
that's not the scenario and I just you
know I still enjoy that all stars is
taking place at all no I mean I'm not so
okay listen I do not think they should
get rid of all star
I actually all-star 2013 and maybe 2014
were some of my favorite league of
legends events ever I just think that
they have sort of they created MSI which
created all-star in a really strange
place and now they don't know how to
recover from it and I do think it is
very disappointing that you say this is
such a serious event and then you're
holding it in the fucking na LCS studio
like where you hold regular matches all
the time and that the fact that they
described it is like we figured out rift
rivals can hold this stuff well yes you
can hold anything in a studio alright
you could create League League of
Legends World Finals could be in a
studio you can put like a tiny little AR
dragon flying around on the rafters so
that this is cute that doesn't mean that
just because you can do it means that
it's a good idea if you want this to be
a serious international event put some
fucking money behind it both in the
prize pool and in the venue and actually
it'll be right create quite cool now I
think it'll still be fun but it's
disappointing for Riot the biggest
eSport on the the heels of their
franchise thing to be holding this
international event that they claim a
serious and not have any money behind it
yeah I was surprised about the venue
change I actually wasn't expecting to
come back to the NA LCS but I think you
said yourself like as an international
then it should beginning the the venue
it kind of would deserve because and we
we don't have that much international
events riffraff was just got added this
year and all we had was MSI and worlds
excluding all the you know excluding
all-stars so that's kind of why I
believe that I'm still excited for all
starts despite the venue change like you
said being a downgrade logistical II
just because it is one of the few
all-star international events I get to
watch
besides MSI free trials added this year
and the worlds and oh yeah and I
actually don't hate the idea of having a
more intimate feeling to it I think that
can sometimes actually come across well
online yeah my I just think that you
could have the intimate feeling like so
in 2014 in the Busan stage for world
final or World Championships they put it
in a theater and it actually was really
really cool the way they did it and I
had you know it's a pretty big theater
but because it's got this theater set up
actually T I used to be in a theater and
it was the same thing I think it feels a
lot more intimate when you do it that
way because the state everything is much
closer right like you've got kind of the
upper tiers that are coming in really
close and it is smaller but I don't know
I don't I just don't agree like the last
time all sorts was at the NA LCS studio
you had players sitting outside in the
rain oh yeah I don't think it's very
intimate can I shout out to the greatest
example of this that you'll love to hear
Travis mmm oh man
Oh Gian back in the day in the studio
with doe and Monte let me tell you I
loved the setup that they had for OGN in
Korea and this is a thing that I
complain about all the time to our group
is that one of the things that I super
appreciated about OGN is that they miked
the room really really well so that when
people were cheering on oh gee on
broadcast like they use the size of the
room and the noise that's created by the
number of people to make it seem really
loud and I feel like it's so bad for na
LCS where all the time on watch
extremes and like you hear people
cheering and like you can very clearly
hear this one dude like talking and like
yelling out ready Tyler one yeah add
like five people laughing next to him
and like you can hear it like it's just
it gives the impression that there's 15
people watching in the audience like
they do not do a good job like capturing
the level of excitement in the room and
I don't know if it's them the way that
they're you know capturing the audio or
whatever in there but man I just feel
like og ended it so much better dude so
much better and it was it was definitely
the golden era of League of Legends
remember it was the ESL studio where
they had that girl is Zoe or something
yeah yeah I know you're talking about
I actually liked those like I felt like
that was a pretty intimate feeling as
well where Carmack did that interview
with doublelift that did super well when
he like aww out of nowhere did that like
crazy deep dive on his personal life and
like you know leaving home and stuff
like that you know I thought I was
mediocre yeah yeah I think I think
all-stars is a little better this year
where like you have teams made up of
multiple players and they're fighting
but I I agree with Travis that like
making a count for something a little
bit more not necessarily in terms of
competitive integrity in the coming
season which is I think really dumb but
not having sizeable prize pool and stuff
is kind of weird can I ask a question to
the group
yeah really quickly this is before we
move sure do you guys think that you can
have a successful event if the players
do not care nope yes oh yeah because I
think players didn't care about rich
rivals and then and that was that was
semi successful idea yeah I think that
players did not care about ref rivals
how like they did I don't know I mean
talking like maybe not care about rift
rivals maybe I think we go in there they
want it to win yeah maybe once they got
there that change but like I just do not
think that they they cared and as much
you know and I don't know I think you
can have a successful event I just think
you can have it be way more successful
if they really care for sure
yes and I would agree with you
either way thanks so much Justin for
calling in place the battery in your
smoke detector because it's definitely
yeah yeah I didn't do that for a while
either but it's not too hard to do yeah
oh my bad no no it's okay
we're here to help you but uh Cal be
real quick what are you drinking I'm
having rum and coke I am having ginger
ale and whiskey sorry it took me it took
me a sec you don't like oh it's
Seagram's in seven you never done it
before okay yeah yeah I like gin and
ginger ale that's a mmm I don't have a
legend I have a lot of whiskey and rum
right now yeah excuse me look at the
next cache for the sub mr. Hankey thanks
for the sub attack of the keys thanks
for the sub we're gonna go to our next
caller in just a second but first and
add a second ad break yes white list
this paint
you
we are back from the break with our next
caller the bravest one how's it going
the bravest one he is literally the
bravest person on all of discord and
twitch right now okay
brave is free confrim hi Travis one-time
watcher first-time caller yeah I drew
his deer cream when I came out to the
west coast sorry I didn't catch that
what nothing it was stupid go on yeah
but what do you know what do you want to
talk to us about so my thinking here is
does anyone else think that thousand
thieves is turning into the Cowboys of
the League of Legends and Nate is gonna
be the Jerry Jones he's gonna take all
the press conferences he's gonna talk
about you know how great all this player
players off are even when they're
sucking up and he's gonna make all the
excuses in the world if they have a bad
series well so first off they're a
hundred thieves not a thousand there's
there's nine hundred less than you worse
there's no reason yeah but secondly yes
so your question is is nade sort of Fame
and being the frontman for this going to
be like Pro is that is that like a bad
thing or you just suggesting is that
just the way it's gonna be
the Cowboys are America's Team I think
that a hundred thieves would love to be
America's Team well I think that might
have changed since the 90s despite their
claims it hasn't so Brent bravest are
you suggesting that's bad if nadeshot
becomes sort of the face of the team and
kind of outshines those players yes well
no here's the thing here's the thing
we're watching it for the players and to
find the next you know superstars within
the any region that can possibly make it
into worlds and go far farther I don't
want to see Nate be the face of an a
when his players are doing all the work
hmm okay so here's here's something I
can kind of agree with is I don't like
and this is maybe a little personal
because I was a staff member once back
in the day I don't like when staff
members make
team a little bit more about them than
it feels like the players and these are
venaseal G he was like I don't feel like
he was quail B logic game yeah all right
all right Bart promise is just making a
joke but mark the fact that you even
dignified him with a response that said
I don't think Kelby was that bad makes
the me think that you even thought that
that was potential you know I buzzed and
I was like trying to move on from it
yeah yeah yeah yeah so like the two
examples or the one example I could
think of really heavily is romaine
actually the guy who just came over and
joined optic I never liked how unicorns
of love felt like they were more about
him than the players and that was like
on full display with the ads that
happened at their finals in summer I
believe it was when he was like running
around on the stage like being the hype
guy and he was in the ads and it felt
like he was as big of a personality as
what should be players and things like
that and I'm fine with managers and
coaches being important people like I'm
fine if people gave more hype to six and
like and they want you to see the course
of love just get crushed every single
week yes I'm fine if like you know
someone is a focus like if probably is a
small focus but I have a problem when it
feels like they're being pushed more so
than others well how did you feel about
Noah that's a great example is because
because likely there was not too much
content around their players but every
every week and I always teased know
about this no would come out be like
hello my fellow immortals fans we're
today we're talking about this you know
I love Noah's notes dude I just wait for
Noah's notes with bated breath so ya
know I think that's a great example of
like an owner being a little bit too too
much more forward-facing than the
players whereas like no because if
players were not facing out enough or
was that because no I think because I
think it's I think I think I actually
like what Noah did no I think no it was
nice but like players players are
naturally not looking to be in videos
all the time and you kind of need to
push them in that way and I think TSM
and TL are great examples of that
we're like their owners are in videos
and you do see them doing interviews and
they are a part of the team but I don't
feel like their content is pushing them
more yeah whereas like they still have
TSM legends and they do a bunch of shit
with that and TL has a ton of content
they do with their players and I felt
like for immortals and unicorns of love
it was so much more about staff than
players which I don't think what is what
should be driving eSports necessarily
and I'm concerned the point that the
bravest one is making that knate knate
shot will be the same way where there's
like hey it's another neisha vlog how's
it goin team which I do appreciate that
they're keeping it kind of humble in
YouTube oriented I think that they
should obviously have content beyond
that that pushes the players a lot more
yeah conversely sorry brave let's go
ahead uh so full disclosure this is my
first season of watching legally Legends
eSports and I came in when Mike young
his first hit the scene and I loved it
you know I was I really got into the
eSports news because of that big play
that he had around the bear in right
before Grif riff-raff rivals and I
started locked watching you know Phoenix
won started watching his streams and you
know he was a humble he's somewhat
Elohim humble got guy who was just
watching his streams now I don't know
how how hope it'll be after TSM but I
like that it was like just watching the
players come about you know see how how
their personalities are see this arc of
great plays whereas I don't really care
about the owners I really could care
less yeah I kind of my my thing in it
you know we should probably move on to
another color in seconds because love to
get some more in but I I would just say
I also like that with some of these
interviews and some of this content the
owners have been more out there and it
is already helping I think a lot of fans
care about the new teams in a way that
they didn't because we didn't really see
oftentimes the owners out there from the
other teams and so them kind of
explaining the philosophy of how they're
building their team and what their team
stands for were and all that stuff I
think is providing more context in
helping to paint a broader picture in my
opinion
and I would completely agree with you on
that Travis it's a very want to know the
bat the what's happening on the backside
but when the backside becomes the front
side of the and the face of the entire
team where you look at the team it go
oh that's Nate's team or oh that's
liquid steam
you know I don't really care as much
about the team yeah yeah fair enough
thanks bravest one I think ending on you
saying that you completely agree with me
it's the best way to do it have a have a
good one thank you so much guys yeah
thanks man I really like that you don't
want the backside to become the front
side
mark mark by the way demons on the chat
I don't know if you want to try to he
wanted to come on at some point in time
if you want to belong I think I mean if
you want to drag him right now about the
content thing he's probably gonna talk
about content thing is damien are you
and disk or what's your name you know
Damien sorry I put him in the waiting
room either way we're up for our next
guest and before we pull him in I just
want to say thank you to industry and
Austin for the patreon pledges I don't
know where that's not going through
stream lapse but either way who's next
you know him yeah yeah my rosin calm all
great from Twitter how's it going yeah
that's my location everyone's from
Irvine or LA I'm from Twitter yeah have
you ever has anybody ever heard your
voice or anything before a couple people
but like a show or have you been is this
like the first time people are publicly
been on the show with Richard Lewis
risen losers ordinary reason Lazarus for
those that don't know is a basically a
Twitter troll I think is yeah yeah he
was a big reddit CLG fanboy to the point
where people want to start following
this Twitter for some reason I've known
risen Lazarus since way back in the day
before he blew up you know oh really
yeah I remember back when I was just a
shit poster CLG fan on reddit right yeah
yeah that's really what he still is
either way recently
there's where are you actually calling
from are you able to disclose that it's
fuck it's not a actually I guess I
should I'm from DC okay from dusty okay
aren't you like a lawyer or something
more or less are you what is more or
less did you think yeah it's much like
crista galli more or less a lawyer with
the hot takes what do you want to talk
about I know the show is called hotline
Li but last week we got pretty deep into
non leaks up because Nick was on yeah
how far off of league are we allowed to
go or am I allowed to go I mean I just
say like and if we need to get married
like I'm just sort of wondering what
Kelby especially thinks and Matt's and
chats American mentioned anything he
wants you to but about what's going on
with Co G and dropping the csgo team and
in the same report DK kind of hinting
that there's evidence that he knows of
that Devin's on his way out to I think
everyone Devon - Melissa right yeah for
those who don't know CEO CEO G I think a
lot of people thought that when MSG came
on board you know fans are simpletons so
they just see big companies they think
money and they think okay that's gonna
solve X Y & Z problems mm-hmm like you
didn't especially for the csgo team I'm
wondering what you think and if it sort
of means anything because now Lee CLG as
a team seems pretty pigeon holed into
the LCS team and right they don't have a
lot of Glen Jeff is outside of I'm
wondering what you think since you know
you were we were in those ropes and so
it was met all right you want to answer
this Calvi if not I can come up with
some answers but no no it's fine I'm not
gonna talk about the Devon situation I
don't think Travis is either because
obviously we know Nick and yeah I I
don't know y'all be the idiot who speaks
up on that one yeah sure for sure but I
so I'll talk about Mike I think that
Lazarus you bring up a really good point
right because and it's probably
something you know because I see you on
Twitter all the time that you've seen at
least me talk about is that I think that
what's really important in evaluating
the space right now is not previously it
was you know where is the money coming
from so if you're valuing sponsor money
that's put into this
seen what do they want and then you're
building your organization to meet their
needs to some degree right because
they're the ones who are funding the
project now with an organization like
MSG and so many of these orcs are
vc-backed what's really important and
less transparent to the general audience
because with sponsors it's like pretty
cut and dry you don't need to know the
objective but they care about engagement
and exposure right so the more popular
scenes they want teams to be involved in
because they provide them more exposure
and then it's just a value assessment
there in regards to how much are you
paying for how much exposure is the game
providing with these different VC orcs
that are getting involved you don't know
who is getting involved and for what
reasons I've had a lot of you know I
have a lot of different talks with
different owners about stuff and like
every org that's backing these teams
financially now seems to be invested
into the space for a different reason
some are running more traditional sports
models some are looking to make profits
at different points in time some aren't
worried about profits some are running
like event companies behind all of this
so ultimately it's probably something
where and I mean Travis and I and we all
know Nick and Nick is a really smart guy
it's probably a situation where they
looked at it and you look at Cisco and
if you look at NAC ESCO in particular in
the csgo scene at large like csgo
salaries and I don't know how connected
or much you follow um Cisco risen but
like salaries across that game have
blown up tremendously and I think in
regards to profitability per division
csgo is probably the worst tier 1
eSports game especially because on
return primarily you're looking at
sponsorship revenue and so many sponsors
have an aversion right now to red blood
games which csgo is the king of and the
whole terrorist counter-terrorist factor
especially with all the Terrorism acts
that happened in Europe over the last
year and the fact that most of the
talent in csgo is coming from Europe
makes this game really really hard to
generate revenue off of so if you are
evaluating the csgo space at all from a
profitability standpoint it makes it a
difficult game to be involved in
especially considering all the North
American CS talent is wrapped up right
now all right
no but everyone else is Madison Square
Garden came in they don't like csgo
because it doesn't earn enough of profit
goodbye I don't know about that maybe
that's that's what yes yes girl it is
pretty hard to be in right now I think
from a cost thing there's two things
that I'll say on this before I throw it
over mark and I no reason Lazarus didn't
ask me this question but I it's on my
twitch channel so I'm taking it yeah so
one is so reason why I was reached by
the way is referencing a article that
came out from DK who mostly works in
csgo space that has said that I'll heat
well he knew that CLG was dropping their
csgo team and then and then I got
announced and then the other thing is he
recently hinted that militia who people
will know ran CLG before MSG came in and
has still had like a leadership position
to my knowledge is possibly on his way
out I don't think that that should be
that shocking to anybody if you are
militia you probably have a lot of
different things you can do in the space
right now because there are a few people
that have been around for a long as long
as he has and have the experience he has
so there's all these new orcs coming in
across csgo sorry overwatch and League
of Legends and even others that are
trying to get in space you know if you
help this company get sold or whatever
maybe now there's opportunities for you
to go do other stuff everywhere else
where I think we'll probably see a lot
of stuff changing over time and I'm not
surprised to see something like that
potentially happen yeah I was gonna say
if you want some juicier drama gossip
stuff I've heard from like random people
in the scene at various points in time
that there's always been like weird
stuff with melissia and I don't have
specifics just like his time on Dignitas
as well as coming over to CLG early on
the most people didn't was good he like
started I'm just saying he rubbed some
people the wrong way
and they that that was something that
happened I don't know how good it or bad
he was obviously he was decent at least
because CLG I think trended up during
his time I believe but who knows maybe
someone a mass in Square Garden didn't
like him
that's the juicy stuff I mean but
probably the only reason I would I would
caution that line of thought process is
that everyone assumes that he's being
forced out and I think that there's just
as likely of a chance if more likely
that like a talented individual listen I
know I've been unemployed for six months
but for people that aren't me people you
know everybody's getting offers all the
time to go work elsewhere and people are
trying to pull people other places who
knows what is on Devin's plate and what
opportunities are out there thanks to
Volks LOL for the sub anyway reason
Lazarus you got anything else for us
just as an aside Kelby you raised a
point or Andy early of what if riot put
in some sort of restriction for players
who haven't played pro yet give him like
mm-hmm until the end of the season um
the one concern when there's a few kids
but the one major one I have is that it
that might be legal uh-huh and this
actually goes to the draft in general
somebody paying me on Twitter when the
draft was announced and also when it
started saying hey don't players and
sports have to be in the Union and under
CBA to do a player draft and my first
thought was that doesn't sound right
but if it was right it probably doesn't
apply here
because we're not talking about the same
thing there are you can just be a free
agent you know right didn't say hey if
you want to play league come to the
scouting grounds you can just not do it
and I think of like three players passed
up on it yeah well regarding your
specific idea of giving them a year
there's a few cases where you know the
NBA used to have a four year rule you
had to be out of high school / oh yeah
someone sued them they lost that so now
it's one yeah and Lana foe had a similar
case they won that so it's not like a
hardened fest but you could have issues
there um but that's basically it pretty
right thanks so much let's bring up the
sixteen year olds oh boy
all right who who we got next mark I'm
just dragged Damian up right away stuff
works now I'm just gonna see him he's
production so if he comes in here and
there's an echo I'm gonna be pissed yeah
audios never been this 14 matrix hello
Damien is already calling from lo hi
wait where you calling from Damien
am I here yes yeah you you are live
right now yes yes
Demian Estrada is on the show hotline
League everyone can hear and we're
excited to find out what Damien wants to
talk about III mean you guys kind of
talked about it all so I'm just kind of
here what do you guys want to talk about
alright do you be a come up with
something always like well no I I really
wanted to talk about how people like cop
and Saint don't have jobs right now why
not why don't compensate have jobs I
don't know why dose yeah you give us the
hot take I I don't I don't know I it's
I'm lost guys I'm sorry uh well I don't
know I blame Travis cuz he was the only
who put you in the waiting room I'm
actually actually hold on here's here's
a hot take Travis cafard has been
killing it with this content he's
interviewed like basically everyone in
the league how is he doing it what's
your method dude Damien can I ask you a
serious question
yeah since we've got you here so now
that you've got all these franchise
teams involved one of the things by the
way we should explain who Damien is yeah
Damien Damien runs one up at Team Liquid
which is the organization that produces
all their content he was there to say
he's the creator of breaking point no
better point he was the one who did
rebirth at first which caused every
fucking team in the league to be like
why don't we stick some cameras behind
our players and put us content like that
yeah h2 what TSM legends all that shit
came after rebirth okay so you mean the
question can I so now you guys have been
I would say at the forefront in regards
to doing content as as Mark noted in
regards to like you know rebirth and
then breaking point a full feature thing
uh as we know like a lot of that stuff
is gated by budget now that we have
these other teams that are involved in
the space what are you worried that
somebody else is going to get budget to
do on the content side before you get to
do it
nothing I'm confident is that then what
are you what are you going to do that's
gonna level up the space on the content
side if if I say it here then everyone's
gonna know you know yeah that's exactly
what we're looking for a scoop for
Joseph uh-oh I just I I really feel like
we're not gonna be competing with other
teams that we're gonna be competing with
like riot on content nice so okay here's
a question for you kind of as a
follow-up to Kelby so many shows there's
so many teams have shows that are just
based around like fought like here's our
team's weak you know and they do it at
different points in time sometimes like
I think in morals had won at Worlds TSM
has TSM legends cloud9 had won do you
think that that's like that'll just keep
going on do you think that it's passe
now from a Content side do you think
like if optic is getting in like should
they do that show for their team like
what are your kind of thoughts on that
format
I think the format is in a really weird
place right I think a lot of teams try
to do it last year and I think a lot of
teams kind of missed including ourselves
you know like we didn't really do a
great job although there wasn't really
much to talk about for a lot of last
year and everyone was talking on Team
Liquid last year yeah but not not in the
the way that you want to talk about on a
weekly basis yeah I love and and so you
know optimistically if if we're talking
about the the create and grind sort of
like week in and week out I assume that
this year's gonna be a little bit better
I think the rosters like pretty legit
but at the same time I think there's a
lot of format experimenting that we're
gonna do this year and someone was
telling me the other day that the real
offseason sort of super team is actually
one up and not not our LCS roster okay
what what is my more goodbye video so
you have to do I think like three or
four Hustle is real did yeah
were talking earlier about producing
content around players versus staff oh I
don't know if you read therefore that
conversation we're having yeah I
actually have a lot of opinions about
that
that's a skew about it's a confusing
space right because like you want people
to be fans of an orc and in order to be
fans of an org they have to have like a
personality that they latch themselves
onto right most orgs obviously don't
swap out rosters frequently or it's only
like a couple players that do and so
last year was a little confusing I'm
like what players to really kind of
latch on to and for me it's kind of been
like that piglet character but now he's
gone so you know it's like lucky we have
great players that have been out so he's
gone I mean he's a free agent
haven't you seen all over the Internet
no yeah there's no without a goodbye
video yet I don't nobody actually
officially at least Team Liquid until
they've had a goodbye video you got to
save the best for last you okay and old
glue last and you know that's my point
golden glue is a great kid we're
finishing that video right now yeah but
yeah I don't know I think I think you
need like a character to latch onto or
like a personality or like someone in
the team like what who's that one coach
that you like mark the Belichick oh you
mean in real life yeah bill bells yeah
yeah right so you love that team because
of him so I think the league needs more
of those characters they need more Bill
Belichick's like in the space and and I
think most practices well people are the
winningest coach of all time and have a
great philosophy that leads their team
to victory time after time Kelby I'm
just making a joke yeah I I think for
TSM you know like they have beards in
and they have Reggie like those are two
like static personalities in that org
and I think more orgs need people like
that I think it's kind of it's kind of
hard you mean static in regards to like
they're there and you can count on them
for a content creator
not like their like boring people right
like they're there you could count on
them you follow them you care about them
and that's kind of like what I like
about the need shot thing is that you
know like sure maybe you don't want it
to be the nadeshot show and maybe it
won't be once they get the players in
the house and they start doing content
but like ham is a constant I think is
important in the beginning at least yeah
yeah very good thank you so much for
coming on the show Damian thanks for for
leaking all that sick teamliquid
information and I hope to have you on
again in the future
hey thanks sue thanks man all right who
we got next I'll hop down and grab
someone how you doing Kelby I'm doing
great
why do you think I'm not doing great I
got to talk about another eSports game
and go on a long rant that put everybody
to sleep I'm all about it Lazarus had a
good question though let's see okay
marks back so we should have a moment
and here's Davidson Davidson where he
come from
I've called from Sweden we did what time
is it there it's 6:40 okay
did no better way to yet or have you
woken up yeah well I actually woke up
from the message from my iPhone that
this show was like hey what do you think
about the new alliance roster wait what
exactly anyway sorry oh
all right so for everyone else be like
David send set notifications for this
channel let it wake you up the moment
that I go live he knows what's up
Davidson
what do you want to talk to us about I
just want to talk about this discount on
situation in EU and how we can transfer
to the NA Scouting ground oh yeah I love
bringing over EU Talent tell me how so
do you know how to NHL assets no we'd
like to drafting day the National Hockey
League just gets a first take on every
talent like Sweden Russia etc okay
Finland so they just drafted young
upcoming players for like free
and you said I'm gonna contract and just
Scout it so it's kinda just an Talent
growth in and I go wait you're leaving
that the NHL just has access to all the
other regions and they just will draft
players out of those regions well so the
way it works in NBA which I assume is is
similar is like you can just draft
anyone in the world and that just gives
you like NBA explicit exclusive rights
like you can't you know say like oh you
can't compete in your Turkish league
because we drafted the Turkish player
but if you try and come to the NBA they
have your rights and so I think that's
what you're saying is the same thing in
the NHL right like an NHL team can draft
anybody in the world and then they have
the rights to them for the NHL yeah
because I mean I don't think that Europe
will ever become like a super a like
world contender a region again because
it's like speeding up once more I think
we should just bet on their and I it's a
great culture as well so wait it's okay
just to be clear and you you are
suggesting that EU just becomes in a
scouting around yeah they just they just
shut down this year's scouted out hey
I'm high elo play and I wanted scouting
and you worry you want to be as an EU
ladder player be able to be scouted at
the na scouting grounds as well yeah and
then he counts as a domestic player I
think which is okay you're coming to
compete and a scouting grad so you don't
take up an import slot you just have to
declare we need two consonants too bad
yeah I do you have removed this quickly
you are you're definitely the most
interesting caller and you're actually
from Sweden to be clear you're actually
uses listen to hear your accent I just
maybe you're a very talented accent
person where are you where are you at in
Sweden Gothenburg
oh shit hole underneath jnkping
oh you're near you really are in the
middle now yeah I went to the season one
okay so Davidson are you more of an na
fanner in you family
if you do you watch any else yes sir EU
LCS or what's your mix I only watched my
homeboy reckless okay okay so like in a
whisk but you don't watch na yeah what's
your they always think of European teams
only Wow would you have did you want
during the off season did you want
reckless to come to na I agree if he
lives in Germany or in the in the
fucking you you're saying if he gets
more paid I'm more apt for him as well
so can I ask what you like more about na
versus EU in regards to the orcs and how
they do things and they's just more like
USA the marketplace is just so it says
so set set in stone like you know what
you can get from it you know how you get
it from it so it's it's more stable EU
is just a fucking shithole with 50
different countries and yeah so have you
seen the the Copenhagen Flames tweets
about how they're doing they're like own
scouting grounds yeah I actually played
in some Danish
it's so weird now because they talked
about splitting up the EU yeah yes and
they was like oh we know what we can do
we can take every country and make it
individual like see yes like the fucking
EU CS for every country and we take
every country's best teams and just put
them in the qualifiers would you have
like that system
I guess it's good for some like new
place like yeah there are some D one
place and like low most place that's
really good at game have really good
like macro sense so it could bring them
up more I guess that's pretty good so I
excuse me the other question I wanted to
ask you to David's and so at okay I'm
gonna publish this this video probably
I'll just
it out put it on my youtube I usually
put it on right after the show but all
of Europe will be waking up so it's not
a safe time so I'll probably posted the
perfect vote and people will hate me but
I'll probably post it like 1 or 2
tomorrow whenever it's safe to post it
but all that you fans that do watch this
will be like yeah but II you always
outperforms in 8 worlds you greater than
a na etc etc so why don't you sort of
share that mentality of like who cares
about na they have the money and then
their players will underperform or
they'll bring over our talent and then
they'll suck ok I'm not I'm not talking
about like I don't have a bias against
na because I feel like the Western
culture in Lowell is one it's one
culture I think it's it's it's bad to
see us as two different entities because
we have the player base we have a big a
much bigger player base so why don't we
take our forces together yeah to create
a better League I mean you you did say
that it's better to view them as two
separate things and then you also said
you as EU as a shithole so I'm kind of I
will no no I'm just talking about the
infrastructure yeah your players better
like area for for like players playin
but na has much better infrastructure
and income so EU you become a great
player and then once you've become great
enough and it takes yeah yeah Davidson
idea ok you just woke up this morning
rolled over started watching the show
and then you're gonna like you're like
I'm gonna I'm going to be a traitor to
my entire region in collab do you follow
smash though I was gonna say leffen see
Swedish he's on TSM comes to North
America all the time to play it's the
same thing you know yeah Davidson thank
you so much I hope you call again in the
future yeah I'd love to have you on
again yeah thanks David yeah have a good
one and have a good rest of your day
to be clear though I personally don't
view Davidson as a traitor
I think that Europe should take a lot of
pride in the fact that they have this
really big task set in front of them
which is developing talent for the
superior region you know it's not easy
to make these guys into the great
players that they are so that they can
be sent off to the you know to the
region where they can get fame and money
that they deserve for their skills you
know like they deserve a lot of credit
for building these guys up for our North
America yeah I think it's funny
all that you people always message me
whenever we do the show because it's so
late and they are upset that it's like
so early in the morning I always think
it's an n/a show whatever so then like
EU person calls it and I'm like my first
reaction was like oh man like he's gonna
be like why don't you do the show
earlier like let's talk about something
you related instead no he's just like
you use a shit hole na for life he
literally wish I wish reckless would
come to in a like is amazing yeah I mean
he's a really enlightened probably one
of the most enlightened guests we've had
all right next guest hello are you what
you're still in this channel I left I
came back okay hello koji where you guys
gonna where you came from
I'm coming from Huntington Indiana okay
cool very good and what do you want to
talk to us today about so I was going to
talking about the arguing video that
came out oh yeah we yeah I think Marc
really wanted to talk about that but
what are your thoughts on it yeah so
I've been following scene since about a
pre season two so I definitely was on
that side of like oh man eSports dude
it's totally sport but now that the
things matured it's like who gives a
crap
I think it's considered youth sports or
not like the infrastructure is set up
everyone knows that it's a real deal and
I mean you got like Colin coward and
those types of people are the ones that
are like making a scene about get off my
lawn yes stupid eSports nerds so I just
think that while the video was cool and
it was like a night
kind of homage to struggle I guess I
think it's a little bit like late to
show because we're already at the point
where like it doesn't really yeah I I
have a couple feelings on this one as I
definitely agree with that sentiment but
I also think it's probably really nice
for people to have you know late some
people have parents and they're like why
did you lose your job at Yahoo why don't
you get a real job why do you work in
this esports saying you should have
become like a doctor like your
grandfather and it's just nice to have
I'm just kidding
you imagine Chaves operating on you this
is a great video I just think it was
three years too late yeah like this
should have came out after the 2014
worlds and you get fucking imagine
dragons and everyone losing their shit
in the Korean Stadium and all that stuff
and you make the same video then and
there was probably a couple fewer sound
bites that you then then you had
nowadays where you get all the tnt NBA
guys and this and that but I think there
was still enough conversation going on
about it back then so I agree at this
point everyone who's been following you
sports for more than like two or three
years is kind of like I don't care what
they call us we're clearly big and
legitimized but did you guys when you
watch that and I'm not I'm not saying
that this was me but a lot of people
said I was so nice to have to watch this
video because it resonated so much with
me
you know the idea like this is the
identity of eSports and like the idea
that this is so much more than some
people think it is and and setting aside
like the sport is it a sport thing more
like the let's celebrate it and even
like Thorin was going in on it on
Twitter by being like why are they using
eleague stuff to promote it that was
just ridiculous
yeah well I just I thought it was
actually really cool that this was not
just limited to League of Legends Riot
has historically only focused so much of
their conversation leo they talk less
about league of legends and more or
sorry they talk less about esports and
more about LOL esports if that makes
sense and so I just thought it was kind
of neat that there was this kind of
inclusive video that came out for that
kind of stuff I really liked the video
and I don't think this video will be
late for
decades honestly like it may be that we
all in here especially endemic to the
scene you know we've been around eSports
since you know what 2010 or something
like that for most of us and following
on a dedicated basis and like you know
you said you know you've been following
since pre-season - so yeah it's not
something we're like I don't give a shit
what Colin Cowherd says I totally feel
that but the the reality of the
situation is that all of this stuff that
we love is funded by people and in order
for it to continue to grow and get
bigger it needs to get more traction and
more visibility into a greater like
section of the mainstream market and
this will always be a conversation until
you know people like this stop saying
things like this what does it take I
think generations it makes us kelpies
like the sales guy unless you have
sponsors all the time it makes sense
and I don't see this even to mock like I
would not have thought of this because
I'm not in his position but you can show
that to processors that you are pitching
yeah and you can say because you know
you'll walk in I've heard this from
multiple people you walk in sometimes
two companies and some marketing guy has
heard about eSports or there's like a
junior level marketing guy that's trying
to convince a chief marketing officer at
a company that has a big budget to
invest some money into this thing and
they think eSports is like World of
Warcraft and was that like lip those
mobile mobile games that are you know
flappy bird yeah yeah like they
literally have are so out of touch with
the idea and they'll call it e gaming
and they'll say so
eet gamers are really into this there's
there's such a disconnect there so being
able to walk into that room or and say
like hey listen you know you have the
sports budget that you spend on XYZ
here's why here's a video that we kind
of think demonstrates some of why this
is valuable yeah so I will have two
sides one your hundred-percent right
Kelvin Travis that like this is great
for showing to people outside the loop
and trying to get them in there and
that's in arguable however there's a
part of me who's been a gamer my whole
life
who kind of has this kind of like
fuck'em mentality where where I'm like
yeah I don't care if Colin coward never
gets on eSports I understand that like
if you can loop him in that's great but
like imma do me and like eSports is
doing great and we just had a ton of
buy-in from NBA officials and like I
feel a hundred percent legitimize and
eSports we're like if you don't get it
at this point that's fine and so that
part of me is like I don't want people
who don't get it to be shown that like
there's money in this so come and
exploit us for money and I'm like people
who get it please come join us and that
part of me is kind of like yeah you know
I totally agree mark they're like I also
like the tweet darshan had about how
like the scene is shaped him and the
fact that he doesn't really care what
it's called either it's at a point where
it's like it's whatever then yeah like I
said I I agree like I want more money in
the scene so we can all make more money
and eSports becomes more legitimate and
like I'm torn on this issue because I
have that side of me and then there's
the side that's like you know let's stay
real with the people who get it like I
don't want some dickhead at ESPN coming
in and being like I'm about eSports now
because there's enough money in it that
I'm paid to talk about it like fuck that
guy and and I'm torn on that issue but
that's what every team that bought in is
banking on just so we realize and we are
on the exploitation route it is it is
going to head that direction it will
become ever more prevalent in what we
consume so I'm just trying to make sure
that when they do it they do it in an
authentic way and it is additive for me
as a fan so that it's not you know like
the shit that we see with Philadelphia
fusion where it's you know marketing the
kids it's somebody utilizing that budget
to create content for me as a fan and
get branding around it that I actually
care about right and that's why to go
back to clutch gaming as much as I kind
of lampooned like analytics are great
yadda yadda yadda like I think that like
daryl morey and that team clearly cares
about eSports yeah they're not like
their approach will be a hundred
successful they're at least like
committed to it they care about it yeah
cool hey thank you so much coach
by the way markup is something in the
Skype chat I think for calling in Co Jay
I really appreciate all this thanks seed
good callers tonight yeah I like these
topics if you are a sub by the way
please during the sub voice channel and
then but please whenever you're writing
something in the chat that you want to
talk about let me know because there's
so many people like spamming as Oswald
and like I'm trying to talk and do all
this stuff that I have a hard time
noticing who's a sub or not so and then
so if you write sub and then we see in
the Subspace chat we'll try and we'll
try and grab you and we'll try and grab
we got a couple calls left but is there
subs
oh there is a sub chat as well I can do
a better job poppin between the general
chat and subs chat to see who's in there
because we do try to make sure that we
grab at least a couple subs every show
because there are a lot of people
spamming yeah so if your sub and you
want to get on the show
type in the subs chat right now I'll go
pop in and read that for a minute anyway
I'll grab another caller speaking of
subs I think we talked about Scootie to
D already for subbing I know we talked
about looks diarrhea but 69 subbed 21
minutes ago so thank you to that them
and then diary but donated $100 and so
thank you diary about 69 it is I have
mixed feelings about your support for
the show because while I really
appreciate the funding assistance your
brand is at odds I think with what we
try to go for here I control six join
the show where you calling from
I'm calling from Seattle oh nice house
how's Seattle it's kind of cold kind of
shady weather
I'm sorry where where are you at in
Seattle control sex I'm from there
originally uh Bellevue so technically
not Seattle but I love Bellevue yeah
yeah I think it's borne out based in
Bellevue yeah is it like is it Microsoft
or is it no microsoft sam there Redmond
yeah yeah nobody's actually in Bellevue
right
is it an without was it just valve okay
either way control six is it true that
you work for valve it is not I do work
for Microsoft though oh yeah yeah
congratulations
and if you want to hook it up
with that bike office365 listen word is
a very it's a great tool and I need to
get some invoices done of that that's
very hot a lot of it felt myself what
did you want to talk to us about control
six yeah so basically I think that power
of evil didn't do anything wrong going
to any and the like reddit outrage about
him going to optic and like going to
all-stars is pretty much bullshit yeah
and actually to make it a hot take I'll
even say that the the EU backlash on
this just kind of shows how petty their
region is and like further validates him
ditching you and going to na I mean he
calls Europe yes all right so we're on
again brought an issue with a budget of
any pundits if your opinion is you is
overreacting about when they're top
stars leaving yeah you're gonna hide
like 12 hours from now just from I say
he you should be mad at the orgs for not
being able to retain talent instead of
mad at the NA orcs who are going out and
pursuing talent as they should
yeah I don't even think they're mad at
the NA orgs are mad at the players the
EU players oh oh I'm sorry I'm going to
better my life in a scenario where it
has proven out that EU talent can go to
this region and be get more money get
more attention become bigger than I
would okay just for for context I think
people are frustrated cuz power we will
heavily campaigned to be part of the EU
all-star team that's called the classic
bait-and-switch yeah well I think you
are upset about the baton switch right
well also Europe is better than North
America and all these players care about
winning so so why are they going and
making more money and having more fans
somewhere else yeah I mean they both
lose to Korea at Worlds good good job
yeah
so we had a European collar on and he
also shit on Europe so maybe that's just
the right thing to do
yeah I agree I don't know so okay better
fill it out I tried to put myself in
other people's shoes if I am an EU fan
and I just see what they lost prolly
romain who are two of the big names in
this on two of the bigger teams they
lose never be one they lose well as a
Bateen wasn't really affiliated he was
like a broadcaster right I mean who else
till they lost they've lost a lot of big
name in Mende and forgiven and spend
that is that is waiting for perks any
perks yeah really sealed the deal no
reckless would really seal the deal he's
like yeah yeah but I I can understand
being frustrated that being said I feel
like targeting a player is kind of
shitty yes do you guys read his reddit
post yes so what were your thoughts on
his reddit posts uh I thought it was
extra Mimi and maybe a little extra
defensive than it needed to be like he
could have just he's done with that
region right he doesn't really have said
himself but I do think him explaining I
did not know I was coming to North
America and whenever I campaigned about
the all-star stuff I think that that it
was helpful and maybe shed some light
that he's not you know trying to sketch
people out my take on it was the memes
while funny were kind of
counterproductive when you're trying to
be like hey guys listen to logic and
reason yeah and and your memeing it's
it's a little like a yeah it won't seem
counterproductive I'm just trying to
take like a light heart to like try to
make their indicator that you're
insecure about a situation right because
like it's it's one thing to be like I'm
gonna joke the whole time in this post
but then he's like all my friends or
like all my the European players who
said anything bad about me you've lost
all my respect like that combined with
memeing just I'm like what what are you
trying to say here like you trying to be
serious and articulate your points or
even sense of humor I thank you but I
sure I mean I'm I I'm fine wouldn't
means it's just like you weren't like a
go fuck yourselves like I'm doing this
because it's great for my life you know
when you're trying to be like it's wrong
to criticize me at all which
coming out that reddit responded by me
being even harder with the like isn't it
a Fed I am upset that our read later is
representing you and all certain that
that thread was amazing that was awesome
yeah yeah that's what read it proves its
value where it's like alright here's
some drama
let's go mean the shit out of in control
so sorry we haven't we've been kind of
just talking about this amongst
ourselves but did you have any other
thoughts on oh yeah so I guess my other
big thought is just though this is
actually like he's going to na he's
gonna carry like lemon and Zig I think
so like if he can somehow go to worlds
like he's a fucking beast props to him
he's basically the opposite of like
Kevin Durant like trying to carry some
garbage asked him yeah more help yeah
it's like the heart of it Jimmy okay
maybe this is a good point
so no Western team can make it to finals
or beat a Korean team so the actual
strategy to keep increasing like the
achievement level is to make it harder
and harder for yourself so not only did
he crank up the difficulty one notch by
going to na he's cranked it up too not
just by picking a team that is not TSM
our team liquid or something yeah so
what'd you think about the the reddit
posts control six about like how he was
like you know kind of trying to defend
himself about some points were also
conceding that the criticisms correct in
some ways like that was a little weird
yeah like there's probably not a reddit
post he could make that would like
satisfy the people who are pissed off at
him so like I'm not saying that smart
but I think as like a relatively
impartial observer if you read that
you're like yeah that seems reasonable
but it's not gonna satisfy the people
who are mad at him well control six
things so much for calling in if you
have an extra copy of Windows 10 office
365 access even I don't know if you guys
still make access but oh yeah have good
laptops you can send me I could always
use a new laptop here they don't they
don't actually they do they make surface
books now and certainly do have got the
best laptops out there yeah well what is
the matter
but can i play divinity on it or league
or yeah
it's got like a graphics card alright
cool you can send me that then yeah yeah
easier this stuff is hardware we will
send you our address after us
thanks so much control six yeah thank
you yeah alright
another great Microsoft person on the
show alright I think we've got time for
just a couple more our calls as we're
wrapping up hopefully we were able to
grab a sub or two mark is in the other
call whoops is here how's it going
whoops is this the same whoops they used
to work in surrender 20 okay
sorry different whoops where you calling
from whoops well San Diego San Diego did
you call before Jason Cali dude yeah
well we had some Iowa and some yeah we
had a car service whereabouts in San
Diego I used to be from Temecula slash
Carlsbad area uh northern San Diego
about like ten minutes dr. mest kanita
well nice okay okay very cool I have so
you pretty close to cross but either way
whoops what do you got for us so I'd
like to talk about how tsm's pickups
this offseason
won't really change their problems that
they've had over the last couple years
okay because go for it I feel like they
picked up Sven and mithy crude I mean
they picked up mithi because they just
want a shot calling support from what
I'd saw from your interview with Reggie
and I feel like g2 and TSM kind of
functioned the same where they played
through their mid laner and just kind of
because they were the best laners in
their regions they could just be every
other team and that's why when they got
to worlds they just kind of fell flat
and then they picked up Mike Young who
was this super aggressive jungler on
Phoenix one while it was a carry jungle
meta and that was the same thing that
Ben was doing before he was on TSM so
I'm afraid that bringing on a rookie
jungler who doesn't have much experience
and having him try to be another voice
on the team while there's already three
pretty strong voices on
well kind of make him shy away from how
he was on Phoenix one and he'll kind of
just turned into a ward but how spended
okay so just really quickly on the heels
of that Nick Allen the guy who runs CLG
just pinched at TSN his little garbage
so he seems to agree with you so sorry
the first part of your statement was
basically that they are playing through
their mid laner which allows them to
crush and then that's why they're
flopping internationally and that this
isn't going to change much especially
given that Mike Young is a rookie and
might not have the experience he needs
sorry is that what you were saying
oh yeah kinda okay mark you want to take
this one sure so I in some sense agree
they're saying that I think one of the
pitches that we've heard at TSM is that
mithya is a more focal player than a lot
of the people that they've had on their
team and should shot call them to
victory I think Matheny has been looking
slightly worse each year I think he's
kind of like the the Afro mu like
skilled trajectory we're like he clearly
still understands the game can shock
called you all the macro stuff well but
he's holding up worse and worse in Lane
every split and so that part concerns me
the mike young point about him turning
into a war bot I don't want to believe
it um but it might be true though the
rookie part isn't what concerns me it's
just that there's been enough people who
have been aggressive junglers before who
have gone down a similar route TSM wall
parth was coaching wall bjergsen was the
mid laner clearly have a more methodical
approach and it doesn't seem like they
they really love the instinctual play
style that sometimes comes with junglers
and a similar thing I think happened
with peanut on SKT where when you have
people who prefer a very methodical
approach to to playing the game that
players do sometimes play instinctually
lose their feel or start second-guessing
themselves and I think you could see a
similar thing happened with Mike Young I
also know from like a personality
dynamic perspective and managing teams
that when you have somebody like this
regardless of how talented they are and
they're young and you
come into a situation with all these
players who have this reputation
reputation the tendency is for them to
become very reverent and then like it's
it's so much easier for them to get mold
you're saying bjergsen is the new
doublelift of CLG no no not that
bjergsen is intentionally you know like
just well malicious rumor was always
that or some of the philosophy that was
that
doublelift needed to leave CLG because
he created an environment where people
couldn't oppose him because he'd been on
the roster for so long that it it
actually became like a bit of an issue i
I'm just saying the natural tendency is
people respect
bjergsen so much and other players on
the team so much that they will really
lean into his potential criticisms and
if he has a preference for a ward but
style jungler then they will maybe take
that into account more than they
actually would normally and dictate
their playstyle accordingly because they
respect this guy to such a degree right
so like I think the point you're making
is like with double if some people just
thought he was a bit of an asshole on
the team right
whereas bjergsen is like I'm so good at
the game this is how I approach the game
and then the jungler starts approaching
the game the same way even though it
isn't their natural tendency sure yep
exactly
so did we rise it arrived at a
conclusion for this conversation I think
I was kind of on board with the idea
that I'm not sure that these changes
will be enough
I think they'll still be a great team
but does it result in them having
significant improvement at Worlds I
don't know yeah
this was my argument for why they
shouldn't change their roster in the
first place well presented so much will
change thanks so much for calling in
appreciate it
did you or did you have anything else I
mean I was also gonna mention how
somebody mentioned how song might be
able to kind of fix them up a little bit
but I also I'm not also sure how song
and Reggie and beard might work together
yeah it'll be interesting it's
interesting I think TSM is probably I
mean correct me if I'm wrong TSM more
than any other team has like the most
owner involvement on the game front and
I don't know if that's a good thing or
about
I think it'll be a big conversation
going into 2018 yep they've never missed
an an ALCS final thanks so much whoops
point six out of ten announces finals
yeah yeah yeah but that's but - but
Kelby whenever you have that philosophy
that like TSM or ease makes it to the
finals and oftentimes wins mm-hmm and
you use it's often not in fact you can
use that as an excuse to just justify
everything like why make a roster change
when that roster got them to the finals
and two worlds two times and MSI once
you know yes they'll get there anyways
right right so I guess I'm just saying
there's there's a lot of it's easy to
justify it's hide your flaws if you
continue to think like Oh our thing
always works for us I'm just saying that
I think that to your point I think
Reggie has a significant impact on the
team's performance yeah in a positive
manner so there's there's two things
floating around chat right now it's a
lot about like what bjergsen said on
stream regarding fan and Mike young one
he said that he encouraged fan to play
aggressive and that they said if you
don't want to play tanks that's fine but
tanks for the meta and I think yeah
that's true tanks were the meta and
that's why spend played them but you
could see that he still didn't earn a
gank in the first you never turn a gank
at Worlds actually so there was clearly
something where like I don't think
spends that bad there was something
going on there so who knows exactly if
it's Bjork or not but there was clearly
indecision in his play that did not
exist ever before because he was such an
aggressive player second the idea that
Mike Young and bjergsen talked and they
agreed to play this game the same way
that is just fucking stupid to think is
like the reality because they haven't
even played a scrim together so like you
can sit there and be like I think the
jungler should play this way but the
first time that Mike Young goes for a
dumb invade and dies two Raptors that's
when the real discussion starts so
before that happens I don't care what
York says yeah
fixing discord not sinking roles issue I
want to give a shout-out to Fred the
free did oh did Mark leave the chat okay
that's weird right Lance I'm Fred the
free for the cheer
opt sfn gifted risen ladders Lazarus a
sub and League of Emily's sub it's
Christmastime people and Hanukkah and
everything else out there just that's
great time to be gifting things and subs
to my channel are great fascino man
subbed bronze feeder boy has subbed a
lire subbed a hundred tea donated $5 and
said hundred tea better than TSM Rio
Grande empirics in Rio made its semis
beer Singh can't even make it a grip
slow and kid funny soaked Marsh mosh jar
kiss by the way and I requested somebody
to sub to do this he gifted a sub to
Nick Allen so Nick Allen now a sub to my
channel thank you so much Nick for the
support
are we ready sorry I don't know if
you're still shilling out I am sick got
some more shilling but I pause when you
got here a fish yeah well here's another
guy you can use the fish is a sub thank
you so much a fish where you calling
from a fish
I'm calling from Washington DC
washington DC we get so many people from
DC are you friends it's President
Lazarus a tiny little part of the
country but we've had I feel like four
or five different people from DC on the
show a fish what do you want talk about
I wanted to talk about money balling in
the LCS and for those of you guys that
don't know what money balling is it's
basically just building a team solely on
statistics and we know clutch gaming has
been making these enormous Lea long
draft files about each player and do you
think that guys would be that would be
successful
ie in example looking at somebody's CS
per minute based upon their their
champion pool you think this would be
positive or negative this is a marketing
topic I think can you think well I think
it's possible depending on one position
and two meta so if we know we've been
super heavy and we'll say getting war
getting mobile we'll say mobile supports
do you think they're I think it's
positive if you can find a positive
Ward word per minute so if you can get a
good statistic for that and then that's
you're going off of you
draft a good support based on that but I
think also you can't the stomach set
because the meta changes so drastically
what we gonna say cubby I was gonna say
so I think that one thing that's really
interesting here is that I feel like
largely money balling exists and has
been most successful and was founded in
baseball first because it does not
account for the team chemistry dynamic
in the same way that all other
traditional sports do baseball is
something where pretty much everybody's
performance happens on an individual
basis one at a time and in league and
football and basketball and soccer all
these other sports they have to work
dynamically in a group with
communication at the same time in order
to get things done whereas baseball is
like the batter comes up to the plate
hits the ball the third baseman fields
the grounder he throws it to first right
everybody's just doing their core
function by themselves the chemistry
thing is not really factor aside from
the dugout and traveling together so
it's much easier to Moneyball in my
opinion and I think why it became an
Advent in this traditional sport because
it exists on an individual performance
basis and doesn't take into account the
chemistry factor that you can't put
statistics behind Frank
I agree slightly with Kelly's point that
the the one area I think that it does
matter a little bit more baseball would
be like batting lineup and like having
high on base percentage before getting
into like you know you're more power
hitters and like those kinds of things
you can actually get higher runs batted
like like there's a little chemistry
thing or a stats things that's that's
this year it's still stats thing yeah so
so yeah I actually great now you put it
that way what I will say just for league
is I feel like the statistics are not at
all ready for a Moneyball approach I
think League stats are so contextual
right now that you would have a hard
time using these Moneyball stats any
better than like ah yeah well Jensen has
the fucking highest KD a and CSD in the
league of course I'll go for Jensen or
so-and-so you know and at that point
you're not really using Moneyball
taking the most obvious like yeah he's
shitting on kids he's probably decent
stats so I would agree with that that
you couldn't correlate the top players
but do you think you could find a
correlation between what's LCS ready and
what's not which I would argue yes
that's an interesting approach because
what at all is the same playing field
between LCS ready and not just because
like in baseball maybe you're talking
about triple-a talent which has a
slightly more overlap alike in are you
talking about like the potential Academy
teams or like well I would say yeah so
drafting and going either into scouting
scouting grounds what are you looking
for out of a basis players so let's say
we know just looking off of statistics
that most of your ADCs are gonna pull at
least 8.3 28.7 will say just arbitrarily
so in Scouting grounds are you looking
for a player that is pulling at least
eight point three or eight point seven
CS per minute or higher or are you gonna
be like if they're not pulling that on
there they're cut off my team or do you
think you can kind of make a correlation
between statistics on what you need and
what you don't need out of positions I
guess going into the LCS not vs the top
players in I think would be my next
question
I would be really hesitant to stats that
way for a couple of reasons one because
at scouting grounds you have a pretty
limited sample size you're talking about
potentially at most 10 games or
something right you play five or if you
have four best of threes so 12 games max
pretty small second the way CS per
minute works is really specific to team
comp under like team play understanding
like when can you go to a side wave when
can you not like these kinds of things
and I think you could argue that a great
player knows when they can go collect
the farm or not but if you're playing at
a team full of other scrubs for lack of
a better word like they're not gonna
understand the macro game well and your
CS per minute could could dip because of
that if you're trying to sense some like
bench like you know benchmark number for
that where 80 carries in the LCS are
expected to get
eight point seven CS per minute and then
this kid falls behind I wouldn't put too
much stock in that without looking at
his gameplay like and talking with him
and I think as long as those tools exist
I would rather use my eyeballs and I'd
rather use my mouth over using stats
okay do you think you could do it for
any position so we'll say something
that's more pertinent would be like Hill
participation or Ward's to a support I
don't actually think wards are good stat
at all for for tracking that because
it's heavily dependent on well so like a
lot of losing teams actually do have
higher wards per minute numbers than
winning teams because their vision gets
cleared out and they need to replace its
have any hope whereas if I'm a winning
team I can put a pink down clear two of
your wards with it and then your warding
more than me and it has nothing to do
with the fact that your team's better or
your supports better a lot of those
those kinds of factors pop up so I would
say ad carry is the best they are the
most basic ass position in League of
Legends were there one one thing only
that's farm up and then not die in
teamfight so ad carry is your best
position to try Moneyball with I just
don't think that the stats that are
currently used are good enough and I
think that's the problem not the idea
that you couldn't Moneyball League but
until you come up with better stats I
don't I don't I think that's the problem
so if I have another minute what what's
that would you like to see then mark
tracked or do you not know yet I don't
know another thing I looked at well fun
background for you guys I'm exercise
physiologist so I looked at weight
versus height distribution in
triathletes to find their ideal weight
do you think we can find a distribution
between all the stats and come up with a
magic number or no I agree mark says no
but like to here Kelby and traffic
Travis's opinions on it Toby
I mean for the reasons I already stated
I think that money balling a team game
like League of Legends is incredibly
difficult I think so so I would just say
sorry your question was like just
generally the Moneyball concept yes yeah
I think if you so there's a lot of
people out there that think that clutch
is
is doing this but in the interview with
me and elsewhere Sebastian has said that
they are actually more just watching
film which is watching vods because they
don't feel like the stats are there yet
so it kind of corresponds with
everything mark was saying and so I do
think that there are like the concept of
trying to figure out players that are
undervalued and building a roster based
off of that is a smart one and while
that's not specifically how money
balling works like you know that kind of
philosophy I think we are kind of seeing
in a couple different places and I I
think that that will make a lot of sense
this time because on but yeah I kind of
agree that the stats aren't there yet
even though theoretically we should have
way more access to stats in legal
legends and we do in traditional sports
because literally all digital games so
anyway thanks so much a fish for calling
in good thank you thanks dude no and so
I we are well he was talking was a
little distraction unfortunately we're
15 subs away from 200 sub points and
part of that is because of something I'm
gonna have to go through here so here we
go diary but gifted to Alfonzo diarrhea
but gifted to i'm silo mellow jello subs
diarrhea but gifted to fish eat diarrhea
but gifted too uptight gnome got
diarrhea but gifted to you know diarrhea
but gifted to jose CR diarrhea but
gifted to Maddie ice six 270 diary
diarrhea but gifted to inhyun
international law subs and Tyler row
subbed I think he just wanted me to say
his name or she I I don't presume the
gender of diarrhea but but I think they
just wanted me to say that name a lot
site I did Kelby are you sub to Travis
no I'm not sub to Travis Travis does not
broadcast enough in order to incentivize
don't be subscribed to someone is gifted
me a sub brick there Colby
our friendship is breaking out
specifically alright so I think we
should just go a little bit longer
because I've got these now a bunch more
subs and the sub voice thing I called
Dominque it or I pulled them in because
the server is not singing sub roles so
I'm trained trained to manually add
people based off of who I see sorry if I
can't get you in and blame discordant
which I guess so what were you saying
with that that you want to go much
longer what was it what was your point
that's I we should keep going okay well
there's two more people is that enough
to keep going already in the waiting
room yeah I think we can add a couple
subs as long as you guys are okay on
timing well I was gonna say I'm running
a little low on time okay well let's
just go until you're good at something
sure well I winner are you using time no
it's like hey I need to tell someone
that they can come over when we're done
but if arts cutoff timing fucking much
later let's go let's go twenty minutes
alright is this person's name is this
your land buddy you guys playing baby
your old friend okay yeah I will go get
the net spicy as I wanted it to be
so mark has a girlfriend that's true
currently trying to figure out somebody
and me about a an issue resolved hey
guys how's it going
hello e so who we got on here sorry I'm
switching back to the hotline League
discord we got Jed oh yes
where you from oh I'm from the okay I
live in the Midwest but can I claim I'm
from the east coast
I can you can claim whatever you want
it's 27 yeah
how many acres of corn are on you I
think that determines it ah a lot of
flat land but no corn around me though
so are you from the East Coast
yeah um so first off I'm a CLG fan so
Kelby I hope you're still a seal chief
in at heart but what I want to talk
about is how I've been seeing and
reading a lot about a hundred thieves
and I think they're extremely fucking
overrated oh okay oh we swear the chin
oh no I'm sorry
yeah I know you can sort okay so I for
starters I think Frawley and some D are
really good I really do I think probably
is a really good coach but when I look
at this this roster the two big miss to
fucking huge huge fucking question works
I have as a media Sandrine I think
they're completely fucking overrated
here's why I think that every time I see
me do stream they dudes fucking like all
four and four oh four and five this guy
like doesn't give a fuck on stream like
now maybe that's different on screams or
whatever but when I watch video stream I
just think he's like complete shit like
no offense to meteos obviously the
better player than me when I see him
play I just think like holy shit dude
like how is this guy an LCS caliber
player then are--you I look at all these
things like oh hey you know 100 thieves
top five top five what the fuck I saw
Ryu playing this summer split and I saw
a guy who could only fight fucking champ
like one champion
you can definitely cuspid let's let
lesser proms cuz I think he was like
extremely I didn't think he played well
out on the summer time I think
we're pretty poor but real especially I
just think he was really really poor and
I'm assuming I guess we can't leak
anything but I guess
Cody's sons can be their ADC pretension
I think he's over in as well and I might
talk about that worlds where he like
flashed in or you know jumped into like
three people like a boost and animal
I just think over the whole splat he was
pretty uh pretty average so I guess you
guys can tell me if I'm wrong but I
think a hundred thieves I think they're
primed for like a seventh eighth place
spot I think probably is really good I
think somebody's at Beast
I like Afra I think is gonna be a great
leader but like who's the same medium
Sanrio just stop playing like four weeks
in you know I'm saying quit I don't know
because we had a caller earlier who was
saying they were gonna be top three and
I was a culinary yeah yeah me too but we
need to get him back and have you guys
just talk you get out I can go if caper
I was saying top three was there one
thing that he was saying like oh hey
he's just what he just believes in all
those players he thinks like that the
media Riu crapping out thing would go
the complete other day if okay jeno if
you believed in medias and ryu where
would you place that team that's a good
question I would say I guess that's a
good question I would say fifth
I would say fifth um but I just from
what I seen they're like medium sized i
he played the last like four weeks he
played um when he was a pro I don't
think he played that well and also
reading summer split was completely
different than the spring split I guess
that's just the eye test I'm not being
into stats when it comes to league so
you guys can correct me if I'm wrong cuz
I answer a question Travis sir yeah yeah
I think I think that's fine yes they go
from a non playoff team to a playoff
team in his mind yeah yeah yeah you're
just telling like two or three slots
yeah so okay how about this and I guess
I can't back chuckles I'm on you know
national you know twitch global coverage
yeah that's right I guess v is too high
on us you know what can i if i could
backtrack i'll say six i just don't have
a lot of faith and read Ryu and meteos
but like I said I think prime not here
to shoot a hundred these are the way I'm
not trying
like shit on anyone I'm not trying to
like you know badmouth anyone I just
know you're not bad-mouthing anybody
yeah I I just think they were overrated
by some now maybe I was came into hype
maybe I came in you know obviously over
exaggerating but I definitely like
people think of it like top four top
five and I definitely see that you know
this is you not trying to you know BM
anyone I'd be very curious to be to hear
what it's like whenever you try to be on
somebody oh you better hear he says
about their mothers yeah well I guess I
guess he's like I've been banned five
times from and no I okay couple counter
points one is to my knowledge p1 was
picking up media's to fill in a spot
media's wasn't really interested in
competing and it
you
in on it the other thing is in mark I
don't know if he heard heard these
rumors I think we talked about I'm at
one point in time is that the
environment in p1 was maybe not the best
swords the end and so I think you can
kind of give players a pass in terms of
what their performance can be like if
you know it's harder for players to
succeed and lower in environments and
that maybe that's why ryu was it's gonna
be somebody you can believe in more and
that would put them in a playoffs
position according so so chime in I
think the other guy I agreed with if
everything worked out you could see them
being like a top four ish team yeah and
I would agree with Jed o as well where
if nothing works out they will be an
eighth ninth place team but I think my
overall opinion lands somewhere in the
middle because while Ryu did look kind
of like shit towards the end of summer I
think there were enough mitigating
circumstances which you heard out at
Ravis that like I don't think that's
really reused skill level I think the
team was falling apart I think the
environment sucks he lost hoping the
team and he gave up and I don't think
that makes them you know a great a good
person and like oh that's what I want to
hear but sometimes you just have to
accept the reality of it that someone
you know basically gave up and that
doesn't mean he won't be good in the
future
Marc not to cut you off or anything but
like when I look at this - I think
somebody's a lame beast correct I think
he's a really good laner oh yes I'm good
when I look at Ryu though I I don't I
see him as a really solid teamfight of
him that comes in laning I think he's
pretty lackluster and well look at this
bot lane I'm gonna assume Cody Suns
gonna be the ATC although hey I don't
know might be cutie pie we don't know
but when I look at Rio in the mid lane
plus afternoon Kodi Sun in lane I think
holy crap now meteos definitely has to
show showcase here gank more really be a
presence and I think that's a lot of
pressure on him and that's why I think
this team really may not have a success
at least for the spring split that I
think a lot of their fans are or but
people might think am I wrong in that
type of well so cop cop in twitch chat
china says pointed out his opinion is
the hundred thieves is just a better
version of Dignitas and i would say that
i would agree with them if you compare
the coaching staff hundred thieves is
definitely better
and yeah and and so he and he said that
they got forth so that's why he believes
in 100 t well he knows more than me I
mean he was a coach here so a cop I mean
you would obviously know more than me so
if that's what you think then I can like
I said about trying to show anyone I'll
go ahead Kelly I'm sorry I was just
gonna say that's assuming that rosters
are static Dignitas plays forth in a
different and ALCS so I think without
getting into that whole discussion I
think like there is a way where we're
hundred through stuck we're like
sometimes afro and sticks they looked
like dog shit and lame they like just
died two random fights
yeah and that could happen again with
Cody but I also think there were times
where sticks a an afro looked fine and
that could easily happen with Cody as
well and I think they do have a clear
play style we're like afro are scuse me
yeah Afro Ryu and meteos are all players
who play the map well and if you have a
strong top laner you can potentially set
them up to win and things like that so
you know I think this is one of the
teams that will be one of the most
divisive in terms of community opinions
for this reason yeah yeah I just I think
taught for like holy shit like I just I
don't see it but what do I know
you know like obviously you guys are the
experts you guys know what you're
talking about but man if you're telling
me like hey they're gonna finish tough
for him with like gosh damn how weak is
the NA LCS is this spring so well it
might be weak a lot of these teams like
really kind of weird so and that was
cops point to follow up to what Kelby
said he said he's he's not sure how
differently na LCS is and points to
several weaker looking teams than than
what we had last time we'll see I was
kidding last I think Laura Lowe's teams
would probably come last I know who's on
the team but I think that just you don't
know whose other team but any team with
Laura is gonna come in here ed the
roster but couldn't remember you just
saw Laura like this is a pretty pretty
poor but poor Lou
yeah I guess to be to turn with the
hundred thieves though we'll see I think
I think 2018 is the year of the Lord O
so I very much we heard here thanks a
little free call and thank you for
thanks dude so while we were while we're
waiting we hit 200 subs courtesy of
diarrhea but who
gifted to CNN as fake news diarrhea but
gift is an icon twitch diarrhea but gift
it to Hawkwind 42 diary became a June 12
diary but gifted limitless diary gifted
Nemesis Theory extent diarrhea kept it
to silent Eric diarrhea but gifted the
Oceania gifted to rush in the sky now
diary but gifted to MLG be potatoes
diary but gifted to age a hockey diary
but gifted to 77 hockey diary but gift
it to naked homeless man diary but
gifted so main element and die Arabic
gifted to Raya
we got waffle foot Army's waffle cut
where you calling from
okay what's a sub Travis you should you
should show that thank thank you for
subbing waffle foot I don't know if you
came in with diary but maybe diary thank
you so much to everybody in the chat you
can use your Amazon Prime subscription
give free money to Travis
alright we're teaming I already like you
waffle place what what do you what do
you got for us okay so obviously you
guys have talked a lot about scouting
grounds tonight already
but the biggest implication from
scouting grounds obviously is that these
teams are picking these players up for
their Academy teams which is something
we really haven't heard much about from
any team or from riot like since the
announcement that the beginning of the
year that the Academy teams were even a
thing the Academy League was something
that was gonna happen
we haven't really seen anything since
then there hasn't been like well this is
gonna be the format of the Academy
League and this is how we're gonna
support that and when they're gonna go
on the stream but why happened so why
haven't we heard more about it and why
aren't more players I guess excited
about being somewhat related to that
because it's just as guaranteed as LCS
is right now
yeah elevated that team yeah I think
they're nobody's talking about it
because nobody cares about it
nobody cared about Challenger it's true
until SCARA and his group of bandits
showed up to meme all over the place and
lose a shit-ton and I think and I think
riots probably knows about that the
other thing by the way is there's just
so much to talk about right now it's a
good chance that like if you bring up
Academy and just kind of gets lost on
the commotion of it right like we still
have rosters that haven't been
officially announced yeah and then we
got all starts this week like I'm
looking at my content schedule and it's
very intimidating because there's just
so much stuff going on if people started
talking about Academy teams and Academy
players and all that stuff like it was
just gonna be hard I think for anybody
to care about it that's fair
I don't know if you ever different taken
on this mark no I I mostly agree and
having talked to some coaches and orgs I
think they how do I put this they they
don't necessarily see it tremendous
value in Academy teams themselves where
like obviously you can you can bring
players in who are young and you can
work with them and get a hands-on feel
for how this guy's gonna pan out and and
I think they all see the value in that
but there's no incentive to winning you
know that that League really at all
there's like there's almost no incentive
to really bring in big-name players for
that reason so that means that it makes
more sense to bring in unknown
quantities then known quantities and
just get hands-on experience with these
guys and I think that's why if someone
signs random soloqueue player number 11
you're not gonna see it show up on on
Twitch or on Twitter or on Reddit and I
think it makes it not much of a headline
grabber which especially in the current
environment where there's all these new
teams and players and all this other
stuff that Travis is talking about yeah
I guess my biggest thing that I'm
thinking about with in regards to it is
in in the LCS right now the only team
that I've really seen take advantage of
the Academy team style thing is liquid
with the Academy cursed Academy before
that their whole season last year could
have been just totally ruined because
the team wasn't gonna wasn't meshing all
that well and then they were like oh
well we've got this Academy team let's
bring in Matt and
right now and they salvaged a relatively
good split out of it so that was there I
guess almost back-up plan without having
to panic and be like oh shit well we got
to go find to someone else across you
know in Europe or here and pull them in
now we got a little bit better of an
experience with them in there it kinda
me team before yeah and I mean like CLG
did their Academy team stuff a lot of
teams have used the Kami teams before
I'm not saying that they're useless I'm
just saying that there's it's not
surprised no one talks about them and
twitch chat has some awful opinions on
this oh yeah I know there'll be stars on
Academy teams playing in games that
don't matter by any metric at all you
know that sounds like something the fans
will enjoy or let's send them off on
rift rivals to go get smashed by
competitive EU teams so then you know
that that's a great storyline yeah yeah
I don't think I'm just gonna say I want
the Academy to be awesome just kind of
like everybody wanted challenge your
series to be awesome I guess I guess
specifically for the reason that it's a
guaranteed spot that is there now so I
just think I think if you look at right
switching from best of threes to best of
ones and also with these new teams
coming in I think if I'm riot what I am
doing and especially the best of one
situation signals to to me that it is
time for rights you just focus on this
core product right which is these 10
teams these what ten games each week and
the players that are there
let those teams build their brands let
those players build their brand and
really figure out how to make that as
cohesive as possible and then start to
expand into like maybe broadcasting some
of these Academy games and trying to
make a bigger deal out of them and that
kind of thing because I do you think
that there's like an oversaturation or
watered-down situation that it can occur
if you start to try to be like here's
the five players on optic but also
here's the five players on their academy
team and then you you start ending up in
situations where you've got like optic
these five players and optic these next
five players except I think it's better
for them to focus on the main product
for right now and and
be clear I think they will still you
know push Academy team soon extent but
it's gonna be for the hardcore fans who
want to get invested in Academy players
who might get drafted it might have a
bigger impact on the league I don't
think they're gonna try and push it to
be like up like Travis and a product
that is as important as the NA LCS yeah
thank you so much waffle foot for
Cullinan Marc I know you only have a
couple more minutes do you want to take
another caller should we wrap I grabbed
one final so you can chill it out thank
you by the way thank you to easy modo
and real foxy one for the sub ready
whenever you are knowable it's the only
the only reason he's in here is because
he's got a picture of his little yeah I
was gonna say I love the is a lecture
next to your on discord for those that
can't see it it's actually a sail
tweeted once and I responded to him with
this picture and he he liked it yeah oh
wait is this the one that started the
meme you tweeted that no I didn't start
the mean I stole it yeah nothing nothing
let me talk me but the one at world's
where he was just like super excited
looking exactly yeah yeah all right Nova
boats where you come from
I am in Phoenix Arizona well thank you
for calling in thanks for being a sub
and hopefully you're holding it down in
Phoenix Arizona
yep it was nice and eighty degrees here
you know wait what do you want to talk
about uh well first of all thank you for
pulling me in Travis Marc and Cal be
good all me yeah yeah I'm work anytime
I'll pull you in anytime
well what I wanted to ask or talk about
is your opinion on like the way rosters
are being built and if teams are really
considering the aspect of synergy or if
synergy ISM is more based on Metta than
it is player skills because you have
teams like liquid who seem to pretty
much have the Russ are already set in
place from day one you know you don't
really know if doublelift and Olay will
synergize that well you know don't have
to pop out there and make smithy you've
all played together
you know if impact will really go well
but you have the hundred thieves 100t
interview with nadeshot that travis
posted he was talking about they don't
have an ADC yet because they really want
to see if aphromoo will synergize with
so that was prolly i think you're
thinking of probably yeah so the
question is are people rushing to build
rosters just based off of talent rather
than necessarily synergy or taking an
account sort of what the meta will look
like and and different teams can be
stronger in different situations
yeah because we've seen like the power
team does you see it just like wow this
roster is amazing it'll do great and
they have all these awesome players
all-stars kt rolster for example
although they did do good they didn't
make it but yeah you know just teams
that look really good on paper but dont
synergize if teams are really taking
that into account or if they need to
yeah
what do you think Kelby I think they
definitely need to this is something
that we talked about on the first show
that I was on where the way that the
market is set up right now is that
there's this kind of onus on the
organization side to grab Talent as
quickly as possible especially the big
names that exist so people in a perfect
world I think you're absolutely right
where if you didn't have to worry about
talent getting snatched up you run games
or you have different you have more
in-depth conversations to see what the
synergy could potentially be like but
for fear of losing these guys that on
paper are so big people are just I feel
like people are just grabbing the best
names that they can possible in building
rosters around that instead of taking
account for the synergy factor like
you're discussing and yes it is very
important but everybody is just using
the mental approach of like well all
these rosters are new so everybody's
bearing the same risk so I'm not any
worse off than anybody else but I am
better off in the fact that I'm grabbing
the best talent I can so yeah I think
sometimes teams probably get wrapped up
in just talent but I think they are
trying to take
synergy into account like it's much
better just have a strong player than
like oh yeah this guy's really
communicative but gets destroyed in
laning phase it's much harder to win
like that than like hopefully finding
synergy like some examples from this
season where I think like maybe the
synergy thing might not work out it's
like I don't think impact is a
replacement for flame I think they're
actually really different players so
that might be one where you're like oh
it's immortals roster plus impact in
double F well
doublelift needs to carry and lean a lot
harder which he can do but you know it's
not like when you had flames just like 1
1 V 2 in the topside and drawing a lot
of pressure by himself well smithy runs
around the map make things happen like
impact isn't always that kind of player
so I think sometimes you have that
concern but sometimes you just you just
take who you think is you know gonna be
able to help and impact clearly a team
player and will work with the team yeah
I I have similar thoughts on it I mean I
think look in the offseason all these
guys if average owner I've talked to
have said they basically didn't sleep
for 72 hours or like barely slept
because it was like a crazy thing we're
just trying to get players before
anybody and so I think in that type of
environment you don't really have the
time to kick back your feet up and say
like alright you know what is the best
way to build this because chances are by
the time you figure that out the whole
environment has changed and now suddenly
the support you want is going over here
and suddenly you know does that mean you
have to get a different ad carry if
you're trying to go with this so I'm not
surprised to say things going the way
they did I expect we'll have calmer
offseason them in the future but yeah
that's kind of my take for now so ah
either way thanks so much no bolts for
coming on thanks for being a sub and
hope to have you on again in the future
no problem thank you and that's the show
in the in the chat right now I am going
to put the podcasts mark even mark
doesn't know this now hotline League
somebody reached out a viewer and and
was willing to put together a hotline
League podcast feed in the next episode
I'm sure we'll go up there so if you
missed it you
it's an audio version of it you can do
so there we'll see how that goes I'm
just sort of experimenting with it and
hopefully mark doesn't have an issue
with it right mark
this is a heat this should be mine
Travis I need some part of this pie
all right well mark and I obviously have
things to figure out
Kelby is there anything that you want to
say to at the end of the show here yeah
I just want to thank the chainsmokers
for the couple years of incredible music
that they produce before they decided to
switch and be a pop great mark that is
very different thank you guys for
watching and you know make sure to share
this with everybody all your friends get
them to watch Hotline leaks it's the
best the legends talk show out there
these days you can follow my Twitter
Instagram snapchat Facebook everything
twitch channel all the mark see I'm
pretty sure thank you guys for watching
been a lot of fun counter logic gaming
in the twitch chat says unblocked Kelby
so even even CLG is behind unblocking
Kelby clear clearly Nick got drunk and
actually illogical around coach account
because I did that ydb that's guilty is
aware of that for everyone watching
thank you so much I think you know we've
had some really good viewership the past
couple weeks this week you know down a
little bit formula past couple weeks was
still looking pretty good and so that
feels really good to see ton of subs
coming in not just for him
diary about 69 who Lord I wish you had a
different name he probably cruciate the
support so much and from everybody else
thank you so much I want to hang out at
the end of the stream for I'm gonna take
a break say goodbye these guys and then
I'll be back in a minute
Travis how many were from diarrhea but
and how many were other people I think
like 20 of them were from him and maybe
another 10 or 15 were from other people
we gave a lot on this channel or this
show for some reason I maybe he just
encouraged other people hopefully some
other people will when I come back from
the break and hang out with folks but
either way thank you so much everyone
for supporting this goes up on YouTube
if you missed any part of it it'll be up
on the morning and obviously the podcast
will go up as well as soon as
our friend can help us out with that
thanks to Kelly for being on the show
gay and thanks everyone for watching
I'll have more videos coming up this
week maybe more videos than I've ever
posted other than maybe week one of
world's cuz I've got seven more waiting
in the can and then all stars and
there's something happening on Wednesday
that's interesting so much cool stuff so
thanks everyone for watching
what's the Wednesday thing I don't know
what is the ones am I allowed to talk
about the Wednesday thing yeah you know
TSM is having a media day
courtesy of Gillette and I will be there
to interview TSM players so there'll be
some stuff it'll be the first time
anybody on the roster has talked about
the new lineup and so looking forward to
chatting with them then and I'm sure
some other media outlets are gonna be
doing some stuff on that day too and
yeah they're looking for an emcee and
reached out to a mutual friend of ours
to do it but she has class that day
unfortunately which is too bad because
Gillette very generous let's put that
way either way thanks everyone
doublelift it go and he can help you
yeah that would be great just have
people do everything but I'm sure twitch
I will love that but unfortunately he's
gonna be in Seattle so he'll be okay
bummer
yeah either way we're gonna go to break
really quickly when we come back it'll
just be me so really it's worth sticking
around that's why I'm gonna get better
that's what she think yeah
wait really okay well I'm confused yeah
okay yeah Marcus